4.0 (202X-XX-XX)
================
- Add document version page list reset.
- Add document version page delete.
- Add document version hash from content object.
- Improve file and version page max page calculation.
- Add version page navigation.
- Support document file deletion.
- Move document download code to document file.
- Add document file permissions.
- Move page count update to document file.
- Several renames for consistency. Use the major, minor, verb order
  for variable names in more places.
- Point document to latest document version. This removes the document page
  views and makes them aliases of the document version pages views.
- Add document version deletion.
- Add document file properties view.
- Remove page disabling/enabling.
- Add document version page model.
- Add caches, settings and handlers for the document version cache.
- Add document version page image API.
- Rename DocumentPage model to DocumentFilePage.
- Invert the document and OCR migrations dependency. Makes the OCR migration
  dependent on the documents app migration. This allows disabling the OCR app.
- New event ignore and keep attribute options
- No results template for file list view.
- Fixed version page append
- Convert document model save method to use event decorator.
- Update file hooks to work when there is not previous file.
- Remove all remaining orientation support. Remove rotation test files.
- Add multi document version delete.
- Add a generic multi item delete view.
- Longer document file action texts.
- Document stub recalculation by file save and delete
- Better document version page remap
- Reorganize and split document model tests
- Add file upload mixin method.
- Unify the action dropdown instances into a new partial called
  ``appearance/partials/actions_dropdown.html``.
- Move the ``related`` menu from the "Actions" to the ``facet`` area.
- Add sources to their own menu.
- Add ``mode`` argument to SharedUploadedFile.
- Split document app model tests into separate modules.
- Split document app test mixins into separate modules.
- Fix the appearance of the automatically generated view titles.
- Add a new "Return" menu for secondany object views.
- Use the "Return" menu for the document version, document version page,
  document file, and document file page views.
- Remove the "File..." reference to the document file form fields as these
  are now obvious.
- Add more return links. From document version to version list, from document file
  to document file list, from document version page to document, from document file page
  to document.
- Add document version edit view. Allows editing the document version comment.
- Improve the return links with the chevron as the uniform secondary icon.
- Rename the document view, document version view and document file views to
  document preview, document file preview and document version preview.
- Enable more cabinets, checkouts, document comments, metadata, linking, mailer,
  mirroring, web links apps.
- Allow using staging folders for new document file uploads.
- Add conditional source link highlighting.
- Add document version create view and permission.
- Add validation and test for repeated document version page numbers.
- Improve page remap code and add annotated content object list support.
- Don't display the file upload link on the document file delete view.
- Seed the random number generator when the test case class is initialized.
- Add document version export support.
- Add download area to hold files generated by background processes.
- Remove Werkzeug from the dependencies.
- Rename common.classes.Template to AJAXTemplate.
- Move AJAXTemplate to the templating app.
