Version 0.10
------------
* Added a proper setup views for the document grouping functionality.
* Document grouping is now called smart linking as it relates better to
  how it actually works.  The data base schema was changed and users must
  do the required::

    $ ./manager syncdb

  for the new tables to be created.
* Grappelli is no longer required as can be uninstalled.
* New smarter document preview widget that doesn't allow zooming or viewing
  unknown or invalid documents.
* New office document converter, requires:

    * LibreOffice (https://www.libreoffice.org/)
    * unoconv [version 0.5] (https://github.com/dagwieers/unoconv)

* The new office documents converter won't convert files with the extension
  .docx because these files are recognized as zip files instead.  This
  is an issue of the libmagic library.

* New configuration option added ``CONVERTER_UNOCONV_USE_PIPE`` that controls
  how unoconv handles the communication with LibreOffice.  The default of
  ``True`` causes unoconv to use **pipes**, this approach is slower than using
  **TCP/IP** ports but it is more stable.

* Initial `REST` `API` that exposes documents properties and one method, this
  new `API` is used by the new smart document widget and requires the
  package ``djangorestframework``, users must issue a::

  $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

  to install this new requirement.

* MIME type detection and caching performance updates.
* Updated the included version of ``jQuery`` to 1.7
* Updated the included version of ``JqueryAsynchImageLoader`` to 0.9.7
* Document image serving response now specifies a MIME type for increased
  browser compatibility.
* Small change in the scheduler that increases stability.
* Russian translation updates Sergey Glita
* Improved and generalized the OCR queue locking mechanism, this should
  eliminate any possibility of race conditions between Mayan EDMS OCR nodes.
* Added support for signals to the OCR queue, this results in instant OCR
  processing upon submittal of a document to the OCR queue, this works in
  addition to the current polling processing which eliminates the
  possibility of stale documents in the OCR queue.
* Added multiple document OCR submit link
* Re enabled Tesseract language specific OCR processing and added a one
  (1) time language neutral retry for failed language specific OCR
