Version 0.11
------------
* Support for signed documents verification added, embedded and detached
  signatures are supported.  When verifying a document Mayan EDMS will
  try to fetch the public key from the list of keyservers provided in the
  configuration option SIGNATURES_KEYSERVERS (which defaults to
  'pool.sks-keyservers.net').  A public key management view has been added
  to the setup menu as well as a key query and fetching view to manually
  import keys from a keyserver.
* Added support for document versions.  Users can upload unlimited amount
  of versions for a document using a very flexible document version numbering
  system, users can also revert to a previous document version.
* OCR queue processing improvements.
* Office documents handling improvements.
* Text extraction support for office documents.
* RTF text documents are now handled as office documents.
* Added a view to delete the document image cache, useful when switching
  converter backends or doing diagnostics.
* Added South to the requirements.
* Merged documents' filename and extension database fields into a single
  filename field, filename are store as uploaded not manipulation is done
  Users with existing data must install South and run the appropriate
  migrate commands::

    $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt
    $ ./manager syncdb
    $ ./manage.py migrate documents 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate documents

* Added new office document mimetype
  * application/vnd.ms-office
* Fixed documents not saving the file encoding
* Removed extra slash in ajax-loader.gif URL fixes #15, thanks to
  IHLeanne for finding this one
