================================
Mayan EDMS v0.12.3 release notes
================================

*October 2012*

This is the third maintenance release of the 0.12 series.

Overview
========


Once again the focus for this release in the 0.12 series is including
bug fixes and minor feature.

What's new in Mayan EDMS v0.12.3
================================

Django 1.3.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release updates the required version of Django to 1.3.3 to take advantage
of the security fixes added to that version of the framework.

Bulk document tagging and untagging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
As requested by issue `issue #31`_ this feature has been implemented and enabled in this version.
Attaching or removing tags from a large number of documents is now much easier.

Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Based on requests made by the community for greater commercial support and services for
**Mayan EDMS**, a new feature has been added that allows users to register their
copies of **Mayan EDMS** and better help users with commercial support packages.
Registration for non commercial users is voluntary and optional, and in no way
affects the functionality of **Mayan EDMS**.  However even for non commercial users
registration offers the advantage of automatically branding the user's copy
of **Mayan EDMS** with their name or the company name in the title area.

Per document type indexing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Index can now be restricted to update only on specific document types, this
greatly increases the usefulness of indexes, and prevents unwanted index
updates. 

Bootstrap
~~~~~~~~~
Setting up **Mayan EDMS** after installation has been indetified by users as the
main difficulty when knowledge about **Mayan EDMS** is relatively low.  To
address this situation a new feature that provides preconfigured setups has been
added.  Aside from including preconfigured setups, the new bootstrap apps
has the ability of dumping an users current setup into a serialized text file
which can be tweaked by hand and sent via email to other users.  The possibilities
enabled by this range from company wide defaults setups to consultants providing
their clients with customized setups without having to access their clients'
**Mayan EDMS** instances.  ``JSON``, ``YAML`` and a custom ``YAML`` format
(http://djangosnippets.org/snippets/2461/) are supported by this new app.

Translation updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The translation for all the current languages were synchronized to the
latest transifex project sources.

Model updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Several small fixes to the behavior of some model were added, namely that
the names of some models should be unique.  The document type name as well
as the metadata set name were two models that were updated to behave this way.

Navigation updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There were some additions and changes to the navigation to make it more intuitive
or to add an alternate way to access the same information better.  The bulk
attachment of tags was one of these.  Previously users were added or removed from groups,
now users can be assigned to groups without leaving the user view.  The name of an
existing metadata set can now be edited and what was previously called metadata set edit
is now more aptly named metadata members which adds or removes metadata types into a
single organizational unit.  An error that caused a duplicate menu link in the
document type filename view was also fixed.


Upgrading from a previous version
=================================

Start off reseting any local changes if installed from Git::

    $ git reset HEAD --hard

Next add the new requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate document_indexing
    $ ./manage.py migrate metadata 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate metadata
    $ ./manage.py migrate bootstrap
    $ ./manage.py migrate documents
    $ ./manage.py migrate registration

Add new static media::

    $ ./manage.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
* None

Bugs fixed
==========
* `issue #28`_ "Document indexing based on filesystem problem"
* `issue #31`_ "Bulk add tags Feature request"
* `issue #32`_ "Error run $python manage.py syncdb"


.. _issue #28: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/28
.. _issue #31: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/31
.. _issue #32: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/32
