==============================
Mayan EDMS v0.12 release notes
==============================

*February 2012*

Welcome to Mayan EDMS v0.12!

This release commemorates **Mayan EDMS** first aniversary!

Overview
========

Aside from new features, the focus of this release of **Mayan EDMS** also
been about improving the code and documentation quality standard
even further.  The permission system has been completely overhauled to make
it entire class based.  The other big change is the addition of object
level permissions, with this new system being applied to documents,
folder, tags and smart links.  There is also a small batch of navigation
improvements.  Big code cleanup and lots of changes 'under the hood',
most of these are not visible to the end user, but make the code cleaner
and more manageable so that more and better features can be added in future
releases:

* Absolute imports used throught the code
* All app permissions have been move to a separate permissions.py file
  per app
* Complete permission system refactor.
* Document signining code move to it's own app
* Initial unit tests
* A lot of logging used throught the entire project.
* Much functionality moved to model managers.
* A lot of code converted into classes.
* Coding style improvements.
* Template user authentication state logic improvements, for stonger
  prevention against intrusion or unintentional display or access
  of restricted data.
* Removal of remarked code.


What's new in Mayan EDMS v0.12
==============================

ACL support
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Object level access control is now in place for documents, folders,
  tags and smart links.  What this means is that administrators can now
  grant permissions to users, groups or roles on for specific objects.
  A more in-depth explanation of how this new ACL system can be found in
  the :doc:`3 tier access control <../topics/permissions>` section of the
  permissions chapter.
  
* Default class ACL support.  Administrators can setup the access control
  lists that new documents, folders and tags will automatically inheric
  when created.  Aside from asigning permission to users, groups and roles
  to specific objects, there is a special user called `Creator`, use to
  allow the access control list that the actual creator of an object will
  inherit. 
  
Anonymous user support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Anonymous user support is a two tier function, first is the addition of
the :setting:`COMMON_ALLOW_ANONYMOUS_ACCESS` configuration option that
allows non authenticated user to browse all the pages of a **Mayan EDMS** installation.
The second part of this support is the ability to assign permissions
or individual access to objects to anonymous users.

Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A new Italian translation is available, provided by SeeOpen.IT
(www.seeopen.it, info@seeopen.it) as well as complete Russian translation
update by Sergei Glita.  Included in this release also the initial translation
to Polish by mic.

Usability improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Detached signature behavior improved, uploading a new detached signature
  erases the previous one.
* Usability improvement in the role member's add/removal form, by using
  HTML's option groups tag property
  
2 Step download process
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The code for downloading single and multiple document and document versions
has been merged with compression support also added.  This allows for the
download of documents in their original format or compressed and well as
the download of several documents in a single compressed file.   

Customizable GPG home directory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Addition of the :setting:`SIGNATURES_GPG_HOME` configuration option to let 
administrators set **Mayan EDMS**'s GPG instance home directory, used to
store keyrings and other GPG configuration files.

Out of process bulk uploading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A management command has been added to help upload a large number of documents
from a compressed file.  For information about this new feature check the 
:doc:`Initial data loading <../topics/initial_import>` chapter.

  
Out of process user import
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A management command has been added to import a large number users
from a CSV file.  More information about this new feature can also be found 
in the :doc:`Initial data loading <../topics/initial_import>` chapter.


Refactored document indexing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:doc:`The document indexing  <../topics/indexes>` functionality has been
improved and moved from experimental
stage to beta stage.  Index configuration menus are now available on the
``Setup`` menu and allows administrators to create skeleton trees that will
be populated with document links depending on their metadata and properties.
These populated trees can also be mirrored on the physical filesystem and shared
using Samba or another filesharing server giving users a structured view
of the documents contained within **Mayan EDMS** from the ``Indexes`` tab
or from a mirrored index shared via the network.  A new configuration option
has been added, :setting:`DOCUMENT_INDEXING_FILESYSTEM_SERVING`, which maps
the index internal name with the physical directory where such index will be
mirrored on disk.

Help shape Mayan EDMS's future
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Included in this version is a small feedback application, found under the 
``About`` main menu, where users by just answering some questions can
help determine the priority of the next planned features on the pipeline,
or even help add new features if enough requests are received.  All questions
are optional but answering as many as possible will help greatly understand
the need of the **Mayan EDMS** user base.

Staging file previews
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The staging file previews now show the filename for easier
identification and speedier upload selection.  The staging files previews
are now treated as a gallery which means that users can preview an entire
page of staging files without having to click and close each one
individually.


Upgrading from a previous version
=================================

Start off by adding the new requirements::

  $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

Then create the new database structures with::

    $ ./manage.py syncdb

Afterwards migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate permissions 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate permissions


When the following message appears

::

    The following content types are stale and need to be deleted:

        permissions | permission

    Any objects related to these content types by a foreign key will also
    be deleted. Are you sure you want to delete these content types?
    If you're unsure, answer 'no'.

        Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel:
    
Type ``yes`` and press **Enter**

And continue migrating database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate documents
    $ ./manage.py migrate document_signatures
    $ ./manage.py migrate folders 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate folders
    $ ./manage.py migrate document_indexing 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate document_indexing
    $ ./manage.py migrate sources 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate sources

Again when a similar messages appears
::

    The following content types are stale and need to be deleted:

        document_indexing | indexinstance

    Any objects related to these content types by a foreign key will also
    be deleted. Are you sure you want to delete these content types?
    If you're unsure, answer 'no'.

        Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel:

Type ``yes`` and press **Enter**

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
The permission system has been completely reworked so sadly this is a
place where even data migration can't help and the permissions assigned
to roles will be lost during the upgrade to version 0.12.  Users, groups
and roles will be preserved only permissions need to be assigned again,
so write down your role permission setup before upgrading.

Bugs fixed
==========
* Issue #17, special thanks to Dave Herring for all the help including
  access to a machine suffering with the issue, and to Sergei Glita for
  his research and eventual find of the core cause. 
* Statistics fixes.
* Fixed get_image_cache_name regression in the OCR app.

Stuff removed
=============
* Support for Celery and Sentry has been drop
  for now.
* Removed the 'db_index' argument from Text fields definition and 
  migrations as it was causing error messages for MySQL users, thanks to
  Sergei Glita for reporting this one.
* Configuration options removed:
  
  * OCR_CACHE_URI
  * DOCUMENT_INDEXING_FILESYSTEM_FILESERVING_PATH - Use the newest :setting:`DOCUMENT_INDEXING_FILESYSTEM_SERVING`
  * DOCUMENT_INDEXING_FILESYSTEM_FILESERVING_ENABLE - Use the newest :setting:`DOCUMENT_INDEXING_FILESYSTEM_SERVING`
   
