================================
Mayan EDMS v0.12.1 release notes
================================

*May 2012*

This is the first maintenance release of the 0.12 series.

Overview
========

While bug fixes and minor feature were the focus for this release, some
bigger changes were included because of their importance.  The parsing of
documents saw a complete rewrite being now class based and allows for more
than one parser per mimetype with sequencial fallback.  This provides the
best text extraction on deployments where users have control over the
installation and basic extraction when deploying on the cloud or other
environments where users don't have the ability to install OS level
binaries.


What's new in Mayan EDMS v0.12.1
================================

Fabric file (fabfile)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A Fabric file is included to help users not very familiar with Ubuntu,
Python and Django install Mayan EDMS, or for system administrators
looking to automate the install whether in local or remote systems.
At the moment the fabfile will install Mayan EDMS in the same configurations
listed in this documentation, that is:  (Ubuntu/Debian/Fedora) + virtualenv + Apache + MySQL.
Feel free to submit your configuration settings and files for different databases,
webserver or Linux distribution.  More configurations will be added to
the fabfile as more are tested.

Documentation update
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The installation instructions were updated to include the installation of
the libpng-dev and libjpeg-dev libraries as well as the installation of
the poppler-utils package.  An additional step to help users test their
new installation of Mayan EDMS was also added.

Translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Italian translation has been synchronized with the source files at
Transifex and finished to %100 completion.

Usability improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The index instance view now feature the same multi document action
buttons (Submit to OCR, delete, download, etc) as the mail and recent
document views.

Better office document conversion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A new method of converting office documents has been implemented, this
new method doesn't require the use of the command line utility ``UNOCONV``.
If this new method proves to work better than previous solutions the use
of ``UNOCONV`` may be deprecated in the future.  The conversion method
adds just one new configuration option: `CONVERTER_LIBREOFFICE_PATH`
which defaults to '/usr/bin/libreoffice'.

Better PDF text parsing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Brian E. submitted a patch to use the Poppler package pdftotext utility to
extract text from PDF files.  This is now the default method Mayan EDMS
will execute to try to extract text from a PDF and failing that will
fallback to the previous method.  This change add a new configuration
option: `OCR_PDFTOTEXT_PATH` to specify the location of the ``pdftotext``
executable, it defaults to '/usr/bin/pdftotext'.  Be sure to install the
``poppler-utils`` os package to take advantage of this new parser.

Changed defaults
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The OCR queue is now active by default when first created during the
``syncdb`` phase and the `OCR_AUTOMATIC_OCR` option now defaults
to ``True``.  These two changes are made to reduce the steps required for
new users to start enjoying the benefits of automatic text extraction from
uploaded documents without having to read the documentation and have a more
functional default install.

Upgrading from a previous version
=================================

Start off by adding the new requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate documents

Install the ``poppler-utils`` package:

* Ubuntu, Debian::

    $ apt-get install -y poppler-utils

* Fedora::

    $ yum install -y poppler-utils

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
* None

Bugs fixed
==========
* Issue #25 "Office document conversion error"

Stuff removed
=============
* None
