================================
Mayan EDMS v0.12.2 release notes
================================

*June 2012*

This is the second maintenance release of the 0.12 series.

Overview
========


As with the previous release bug fixes and minor feature were the focus
for this release too.  `issue #24`_ has been fixed and document
check outs have been added too as per the feature request posted as `issue #26`_.
The way the history events for a document are presented has been improved and
it is now more useful as it provides filtering by event type.  To improve
the diagnosis of installation of runtime error a simple view showing the
number of internal interval jobs being used by Mayan EDMS as well as a
new app which shows a detail of the current installation enviroment were added.

What's new in Mayan EDMS v0.12.2
================================

Smarter auto admin creation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mayan EDMS creates a administrator user during the
database creation phase to reduce the amount of steps required for a
functional install.  The creation of this account is controlled by the configuration
option `COMMON_AUTO_CREATE_ADMIN`, the username of the account is
specified with the configuration option `COMMON_AUTO_ADMIN_USERNAME`
and the password of this account by the option `COMMON_AUTO_ADMIN_PASSWORD`.
Previously the `COMMON_AUTO_ADMIN_PASSWORD` defaulted to 'admin' which
created an administrator account of username 'admin' with a password of
'admin'.  The new default is to randomize an initial password and show this password
at the login screen until the administrator password is changed.

Document check outs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
As per the feature request filed under `issue #26`_, a new document
check out and check in functionality has been added.  Users can now
check out a document and lock new version of it from being uploaded to avoid
editing conflicts.  Document check outs have an expiration period after which
Mayan EDMS will automatically check them back in to avoid a permanent
document lockout.  Only the user who has checked out a document can upload
new versions of it or check the document back in before the expiration period,
unless being granted the ``Allow overriding check out restrictions`` or
``Forcefully check in documents`` permission respectively.

Installation environment app
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Diagnosting remote installations of web based applications without access to the
command line can be a bit hard, to alleviate this situation a new installation
environment details app has been added.  The purpose of this app is to provide
support staff information about the physical environment where Mayan EDMS has
been installed.  To avoid possible security compromises only administrators
can access this app.

Editable compressed documents filename
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Previously when downloading more than one document in a compressed manner,
Mayan EDMS would produce a file with the name ``document_bundle.zip`` for
download.  A different filename can now be specified at the same download dialog.

German translation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A German language translation has been added thanks to Tetja Rediske
and Tilmann Sittig.

Statistics gathering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Previous attempts at gathering usage statistics have been met with deficient results.
User participation in surveys as well as the quality of the data entered by users
was disappointing.  That is why this version of Mayan EDMS features an
anonymous statistics gathering functionality.


Upgrading from a previous version
=================================

Start off by adding the new requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate common 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate common
    $ ./manage.py migrate checkouts
    $ ./manage.py migrate installation

Add new static media::

    $ ./manage.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
* None

Bugs fixed
==========
* `issue #24`_ "Duplicated filename extension when uploading a new version of a document"
* `issue #26`_ "checkout feature request"

Stuff removed
=============
* Feedback app



.. _issue #24: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/24
.. _issue #26: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/26
