================================
Mayan EDMS v0.13 release notes
================================

*December 2012*

Welcome to Mayan EDMS v0.13!

Overview
========

Initially this version was meant as a the third maintenance release of
the 0.12 series, but with the amount of changes and updates that were included
it was obvious this was not just a bug fix version anymore hence the version
jump to 0.13 instead of 0.12.3


What's new in Mayan EDMS v0.13
================================

Django 1.3.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release updates the required version of Django to 1.3.5 to take advantage
of the security fixes added to that version of the framework.

Bulk document tagging and untagging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
As requested by issue `issue #31`_ this feature has been implemented and enabled in this version.
Attaching or removing tags from a large number of documents is now much easier.

Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Based on requests made by the community for greater commercial support and services for
Mayan EDMS, a new feature has been added that allows users to register their
copies of Mayan EDMS and better help users with commercial support packages.
Registration for non commercial users is voluntary and optional, and in no way
affects the functionality of Mayan EDMS.  However even for non commercial users
registration offers the advantage of automatically branding the user's copy
of Mayan EDMS with their name or the company name in the title area.

Per document type indexing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Index can now be restricted to update only on specific document types, this
greatly increases the usefulness of indexes, and prevents unwanted index
updates.

Bootstrap
~~~~~~~~~
Setting up Mayan EDMS after installation has been indetified by users as the
main difficulty when knowledge about Mayan EDMS is relatively low.  To
address this situation a new feature that provides preconfigured setups has been
added.  These preconfigured setups are published in the Mayan EDMS website and
upon synchonization are available to users, this gives users access and integrators
access to new setups without having to wait for new versions of Mayan EDMS.
Aside from including preconfigured setups, the new bootstrap app
has the ability of dumping an user's current setup into a serialized text file
which can be tweaked by hand and sent via email to other users.  The possibilities
enabled by this range from company wide defaults setups to consultants providing
their clients with customized setups without having to access their clients'
Mayan EDMS instances.  ``JSON``, ``YAML`` and a custom ``YAML`` format
(http://djangosnippets.org/snippets/2461/) are supported by this new app.

Add documents to folders in bulk
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
As requested, the ability to add more than one document at a time to a selected
folder has been added.

Translation updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The translation for all the current languages were synchronized to the
latest transifex project sources.

Model updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Several small fixes to the behavior of some model were added, namely that
the names of some models should be unique.  The document type name as well
as the metadata set name were two models that were updated to behave this way.

Navigation updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There were some additions and changes to the navigation to make it more intuitive
or to add an alternate way to access the same information better.  The bulk
attachment of tags was one of these.  Previously users were added or removed from groups,
now users can be assigned to groups without leaving the user view.  The name of an
existing metadata set can now be edited and what was previously called metadata set edit
is now more aptly named metadata members which adds or removes metadata types into a
single organizational unit.  An error that caused a duplicate menu link in the
document type filename view was also fixed.

Support for UNOCONV dropped
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Support for converting office documents by calling LibreOffice via UNOCONV
has been disabled for a while ever since LibreOffice start including
document conversion support from the command line.  This version completly
removes any traces of code and configuration options related to UNOCONV.

Optimizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Inspired by the idea of getting Mayan EDMS running effectively on low power hardware such as
the Raspberry Pi, several rounds or profiling and optimization were done.

Some caching optimization were introduced to the permission model, resulting in
a speed increase of 33% in rendering time on views with heavy permission checking
and a 18% query reduction on cache hits.

Upgrading from a previous version
=================================
If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the existing installation.

Next add the new requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements/production.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate document_indexing
    $ ./manage.py migrate metadata 0001 --fake
    $ ./manage.py migrate metadata
    $ ./manage.py migrate bootstrap
    $ ./manage.py migrate documents
    $ ./manage.py migrate registration

Add new static media::

    $ ./manage.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================
* `issue #28`_ "Document indexing based on filesystem problem"
* `issue #29`_ Default ACL documentation
* `issue #30`_ "Ubuntu 12.0.4 LTS complaining about mising 'fabfile/templates/settings_local.py' (master branch)"
* `issue #31`_ "Bulk add tags Feature request"
* `issue #32`_ "Error run $python manage.py syncdb"
* `issue #33`_ "Fetches translations from Transifex. "
* `issue #34`_ "Initial syncdb fails because of import time database access"
* `issue #35`_ "Fix first install syncdb on Postgres"
* `issue #37`_ "When 19 >= &document_type_id >= 10 in url, error page not found"
* `issue #39`_ Feature request "Bulk move folders"


.. _issue #28: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/28
.. _issue #29: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/29
.. _issue #30: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/30
.. _issue #31: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/31
.. _issue #32: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/32
.. _issue #33: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/33
.. _issue #34: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/34
.. _issue #35: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/35
.. _issue #37: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/37
.. _issue #39: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/39
