=============================
Mayan EDMS v1.0 release notes
=============================

*[...] 2014*

Welcome to Mayan EDMS v1.0!

Overview
========



What's new in Mayan EDMS v1.0
=============================

New home
~~~~~~~~
The growth and reach of the project has necesitaded for a while the move
of the project to its own organization in Github. This moved has finally
done, the new URL of the project is: https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms

Django 1.4.13
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This release updates the required version of Django to 1.4.13, bringing with it
not only new features but also a lot of security updates.

Translation updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The translation for some languages were synchronized to the latest transifex project sources.

Model updates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There were some convenience properties created to allow quick access to
a document's version and pages. These custom properties were removed and
an official method to access these properties as provided by Django is now
used.

Source code improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A circular import of metadata and document_index apps code from the documents app
was removed. Document index updates are now handled via signals not called
directly as before.

Removal of included 3rd party modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
One last 3rd party module was included with the source code of Mayan EDMS,
this module is now available on PyPI and fetched during installation instead
of being included.

Automatic testing and code coverage check
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Some initial tests were added, this will help with the detection of
regressions or bug when adding new features. More tests are needed but
the initial work has being started.

Update of required modules and libraries versions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Many of the required modules and libraries have been updated to a more
recent version if not to their most recent released version.

Database connection leaks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stale database connection being left open by the OCR queue handling task
are now explictly closed. This should increase the stability and reduce memory
usage.

Deletion of detached signatures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Detached signatures can now be deleted if accidentally added to the wrong document.


Upgrading from a previous version
=================================
If you installed **Mayan EDMS** by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the existing installation.

Next add the new requirements::

    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ ./manage.py migrate metadata 0001 --fake

Add new static media::

    $ ./manage.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================
* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================
* `issue #39`_ Feature request "Bulk move folders"


.. _issue #39: https://github.com/rosarior/mayan/issues/39
