=============================
Mayan EDMS v1.1 release notes
=============================

Released: February 10, 2015

Welcome to Mayan EDMS v1.1


What's new in Mayan EDMS v1.1
=============================

Celery
~~~~~~
All background tasks processing has been converted to use Celery_. By default
**Mayan EDMS** runs in "Eager" until a broker and result backend are configured
as per `Celery's documentation`_. This change made the built-in scheduler and
job_processing apps obsolete, both were removed.


Views namespaces
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
All views are namespaced_ with the name of the app which defines them. If you have
developed 3rd party apps for **Mayan EDMS** be sure to update any reference to a view
by prepending the app name to the view name.


Removal of the splash screen
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The static image home screen has been replaced with a quick links view, showing
the most used actions: Uploading documents, viewing recent documents, viewing
all documents and searching documents.


Sending and receiving documents via email
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A link or entire documents can be sent as attachments via email. Documents can
also be received via email with the addition of two document sources named IMAP and POP3
which correspond to the mail protocol used to fetch the documents. Read Django's
`email configuration settings documentation`_ for more details on how to set up
mail serving.


Update to Django 1.6.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Mayan EDMS** has been updated to use Django 1.6.8.


Events app
~~~~~~~~~~
The built-in history app has been removed in favor of a new events wrapper app
for `Django activity stream`_


Watch folders
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Filesystem folders can be monitored for change and their files automatically
uploaded as documents in **Mayan EDMS**.


Vagrant file included
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A vagrant file is now included to allow developers to provision a virtual machine
with the latest development version of **Mayan EDMS**.


User locale profile (language and timezone)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Interface language and locale setting can now be setup for each user and are not
installation wide as before. Date and times offsets are automatically ajusted to
each user's timezone settings.


Document states
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A new simple workflow app that can represent document states has been included.


Explicit document types needed per index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Indexes can now be tied to document types, eliminating the need to update
indexes for every document update. Indexes will only update when a document of
the type to which they are associated is updated.


Optional and required metadata types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Metadata types can now be assigned in two ways to documents types, as optional or
required. Values for required metadata types as the name implies, must be entered
for documents to be able to be uploaded. Optional metadata types on the other hand
can be left blank by the user.


Bulk document type change
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is now possible to change the document type of previously uploaded documents.
When the document type of a document is changed the metadata values are reset and
the metadata types of the new document type are automatically assigned.


New release cycle
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Starting with this version a new release cycle methodology will come into effect.
The goal of this release cycle is to allow two series of versions of **Mayan EDMS** to be
active at a given time: A new major version with new functionality and a minor version
providing upgrades and fixes. This release (1.1) will be active and supported
during releases of versions 2.x, but will go into end-of-life as soon as
version 3.0 is released, at which time version series 2.x will go into
maintenance mode.


Deprecation of Python 2.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Series 1.0 of **Mayan EDMS** will be the last series supporting Python 2.6. Series
2.0 will be using Django 1.7.x which itself requires Python 2.7 or later.


Improved testings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
**Mayan EDMS** is now automatically tested against SQLite, MySQL and PostgreSQL.


API updates
~~~~~~~~~~~
Many new API endpoints have been added exposing the majority of **Mayan EDMS** functionality.


Messages contextual improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Many updates and simplifications were made to the source text messages to reduce the
difficulty of translating **Mayan EDMS** and maintaing the contextual meaning of the
text messages.

Improved method for custom settings
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Custom settings now use a string based value, it is longer needed to import
classes when customizing a setting::

  from custom_app.backends import CustomStorageBackend
  DOCUMENTS_STORAGE_BACKEND = CustomStorageBackend

Instead the fully qualified name of the class must be passed as the setting value::

  DOCUMENTS_STORAGE_BACKEND = 'custom_app.backends.CustomStorageBackend'


Removal of the OCR config setting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OCR behavior is now a document type property meaning that it can be turned
on or off for specific document types.


Per document language setting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Previously the document language used for OCR was specified for the entire
installation. If documents in multiple languages were uploaded some suffered
lower success rates. Now the language of each document can be specified.


Metadata validation and parsing support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is now possible to create functions to validate metadata value input or
parse and store corrected values. Three sample metadata validations functions
are included: ``Parse date and time``, ``Parse date`` and ``Parse time``.


Removal of 960 grid system in favor Pure CSS's grid system
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
By using Pure CSS's columns based grid system, the move towards a
Bootstrap UI migration has advanced greatly.


Simplified UI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
All user actions as well as the logout button are now under the user functions
section.


Stable PDF previews generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The way PDF were being generated has been improved greatly eliminating
spurious segmentation faults at the expense of a small speed penalty.


More technical documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Many new sub topics were added to the development section of the documentation
to allow developers to better understand the inner workings and philosophies
of **Mayan EDMS**.


Other changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Removal of the MAIN_SIDE_BAR_SEARCH setting
* Removal of THEMES and themes support
* Removal of VERBOSE_LOGIN setting
* Removal of graphics backend supported file format list view
* Removal of the MAIN_DISABLE_ICONS setting
* Removal of specialized Sentry support
* Removal of the MAIN_ENABLE_SCROLL_JS setting
* Remove hardcoded root (/) redirections
* Removal of APSCheduler as a requirement
* Removal of the scheduled jobs view
* Removal of the web_theme app
* Removal of the sources icon selection support
* Removal of the in-app help panels
* Removal of the duplicate document search feature
* Removal of filesystem document indexes mirroring feature
* Improve sources app model sub classes and inheritance handling
* Addition of CORS support to the API


Upgrading from a previous version
=================================
IMPORTANT! Before running the upgrade make sure none of your documents have
duplicated metadata types, meaning that the same metadata type must not appear
twice for any given document.

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py migrate dynamic_search 0001 --fake
    $ mayan-edms.py migrate history 0001 --fake
    $ mayan-edms.py migrate linking 0001 --fake
    $ mayan-edms.py migrate lock_manager 0001 --fake
    $ mayan-edms.py migrate tags 0001 --fake
    $ mayan-edms.py migrate


During the migration several messages of stale content types can occur:

.. code-block:: bash

    The following content types are stale and need to be deleted:

        metadata | documenttypedefaults
        metadata | metadataset
        metadata | metadatasetitem
        ocr | documentqueue
        ocr | queuedocument
        sources | watchfolder
        sources | outofprocess
        sources | webform
        sources | stagingfolder
        tags | tagproperties

    Any objects related to these content types by a foreign key will also
    be deleted. Are you sure you want to delete these content types?
    If you're unsure, answer 'no'.

        Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel:


You can safely answer "yes".

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

Remove unused dependencies::

    $ pip uninstall APScheduler
    $ pip uninstall django-taggit


The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* You will have to redefine your document sources due to the new extended models
  for this app.
* Check your configurations of smart links and indexes to use the newly provided
  arguments.


Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `issue #30 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/30>`_ Document workflows
* `issue #32 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/32>`_ Watched folders
* `issue #34 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/34>`_ Postprocessing document queue
* `issue #35 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/35>`_ Metadata validation
* `issue #37 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/37>`_ Add from __future__ import unicode_literals
* `issue #39 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/39>`_ Capitalization of messages
* `issue #40 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/40>`_ Update references to root ('/') path
* `issue #46 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/46>`_ Advanced search past 1st page
* `issue #49 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/49>`_ Problems with large pdf files
* `issue #50 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/50>`_ raise CommandNotFound(path)
* `issue #51 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/51>`_ Search with ANONYMOUS error
* `issue #55 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/55>`_ Document approval cicle?
* `issue #56 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/56>`_ Removal of non essential features, views, models
* `issue #57 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/57>`_ Migrate to Celery for task query and periodic tasks
* `issue #64 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/64>`_ Pluralize messages properly
* `issue #65 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/65>`_ Backport the ability to receive documents via email
* `issue #66 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/66>`_ Python 3 compatibility: Add from __future__ import unicode_literals and remove all u''
* `issue #68 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/68>`_ Revise and update the use gettext vs. gettext_lazy
* `issue #69 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/69>`_ Feature removal: remove "Unregistered" message from the title bar
* `issue #71 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/71>`_ Add retry support to the converter task
* `issue #72 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/72>`_ Delete unused static icons
* `issue #74 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/74>`_ Cache a document's first document version
* `issue #75 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/75>`_ Move automatic OCR queueing from a configuration settings to a property of Document Type model
* `issue #77 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/77>`_ Add document view permission support to the search app
* `issue #78 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/78>`_ COMMON_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY seems not to be used everywhere
* `issue #79 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/79>`_ Error installing
* `issue #82 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/82>`_ Make document type a required field
* `issue #83 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/83>`_ Simplify source app views and navigation
* `issue #84 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/84>`_ Remove template context variable 'object_name' to improve translations
* `issue #85 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/85>`_ Reset page count for a single document
* `issue #86 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/86>`_ Move migrations to new 'south_migrations' folders
* `issue #87 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/87>`_ Per document language selection
* `issue #88 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/88>`_ Remove metadata type selection from the upload wizard
* `issue #89 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/89>`_ Allow metadata types to be required for specific document types
* `issue #90 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/90>`_ Remove the app_registry app
* `issue #91 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/91>`_ Don't preserve the ?page= URL query string value when switching sources during document upload
* `issue #92 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/92>`_ Make register_multi_item_links class aware
* `issue #95 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/95>`_ Installation error on Mac OSX; OSError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory
* `issue #96 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/96>`_ Remove hard code User model references
* `issue #97 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/97>`_ Make multi item links a drop down list
* `issue #104 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/104>`_ Finish polishing metadata validation patch
* `issue #105 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/105>`_ Tie smart links setups to document types
* `issue #106 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/106>`_ Convert document indexing app actions to Celery
* `issue #107 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/107>`_ Restrict document metadata addition and removal
* `issue #108 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/108>`_ New home screen
* `issue #109 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/109>`_ Add Roles API endpoints
* `issue #111 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/111>`_ Add Checkouts API endpoints
* `issue #112 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/112>`_ Add OCR API endpoints
* `issue #114 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/114>`_ Implement UI language as user preference
* `issue #116 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/116>`_ Add documentation topic explicitly noting the binary requirements
* `issue #118 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/118>`_ When a metadata type is removed from a document type, remove it from all the documents of that type
* `issue #119 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/119>`_ When a required metadata type is added to a document type, add it to all documents of that type
* `issue #126 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/126>`_ Failing migration with SQLite
* `issue #127 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/127>`_ Failing migration with Postgres
* `issue #128 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/128>`_ Add Indexes API endpoints
* `issue #129 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/129>`_ Search api shouldn't memorize requested page as part of the query
* `issue #130 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/130>`_ Users API is not working correctly
* `issue #131 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/131>`_ Is there an API to update a user's password?
* `issue #137 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/137>`_ Enhancement of language selection
* `issue #138 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/138>`_ Possibility to keep zoom factor
* `issue #139 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/139>`_ Translatability of language selection
* `issue #140 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/140>`_ Thumbnail creation for ods crashing
* `issue #143 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/143>`_ Exception Value: 'exceptions.ValueError' object has no attribute 'messages'
* `issue #144 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/144>`_ Behavior of 'Edit metadata' (Recent Documents)
* `issue #146 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/146>`_ Periodic task not initiated for mail boxes and watch folders
* `issue #149 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/149>`_ Attribute error in document download
* `issue #150 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/150>`_ Double second menu entry
* `issue #152 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/152>`_ Document content empty
* `issue #153 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/153>`_ south migration with postgres: documents: 031_remove_orphan_documents
* `issue #154 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/154>`_ south migration with postgres: tags: 0002_auto__add_tag__chg_field_tagproperties_tag
* `issue #157 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/157>`_ upload new version of a document not working
* `issue #158 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/158>`_ Plural form not matching singular form in ocr app  bug i18n


.. _Celery: http://www.celeryproject.org/
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
.. _Celery's documentation: http://celery.readthedocs.org/en/latest/configuration.html
.. _namespaced: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/topics/http/urls/#url-namespaces
.. _email configuration settings documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/ref/settings/#email-host
.. _Django activity stream: https://github.com/justquick/django-activity-stream

