=============================
Mayan EDMS v2.0 release notes
=============================

Released: December 2015

Welcome to Mayan EDMS v2.0


What's new in Mayan EDMS v2.0
=============================

Update to Django 1.7
--------------------
The biggest change of this release comes in the form of support for Django 1.7.
**Mayan EDMS** makes use of several new features of Django 1.7 like: migrations,
app config and transaction handling. The version of Django supported in this
version is 1.7.10. With the move to Django 1.7, support for South migrations
and Python 2.6 is removed. The switch to Django 1.7's app config means that
the startup order of app should not longer have any relevance, cause any import
or startup problems.

Frontend UI
-----------
The frontend UI HTML has been re-factored to use Bootstrap. Along with this
update a lot of legacy HTML and CSS was removed, greatly simplifying the
existing template and allowing the removal of some.

Theming and re-branding
----------------------
All the presentation logic and markup has been moved into it's own app, the
'appearance' app. All modifications required to customize the entire look of
the **Mayan EDMS** can now be done in a single app. Very little markup remains
in the other apps, and it's usually because of necessity, namely the widgets.py
modules.

Improved page navigation interface
----------------------------------
Previously the document page interface used a fancybox windows leaving the
current document in the background. This UI workflow as been improved and the
document page navigation behaves like the rest of the document views.

Menu reorganization
-------------------
To improve user experience, the main menu has been restructured based on
function usage, moving seldom used buttons inside other views.

Removal of famfam icon set
--------------------------
The previously used icon set and icon display code was removed and a new
system that favor font icon was added.

Document preview generation
---------------------------
The image conversion system was re-factored from the ground up and uses a much
smarted caching system. The document image cache has it's own Django file
storage driver and no longer default to the system /tmp directory. By moving
the document image cache to a Django file storage, the cache doesn't need to
reside in the same filesystem or even computer serving the document images.
This change also allows nodes in a clustered install to share the document
image cache.

Document submission for OCR changed to POST
-------------------------------------------
Previously submitting a document for OCR could be done with a GET request to
the corresponding URL. This design decision allowed for fast user experience
but caused massive document submissions when sites were scanned by web spiders.
The new workflow is to submit documents to the OCR queue only on POST request.

New YAML based settings system
------------------------------
The first phase of the new distributed settings system has landed in this
version. This first change causes settings to be serialized to YAML. This also
means that it is not possible to pass functions or custom classes as values to
settings. Setting that related to a class or function, now specify the path to
those classes or functions and they are imported dynamically at runtime.
Example::

    DOCUMENTS_STORAGE_BACKEND = 'storage.backends.filebasedstorage.FileBasedStorage'

Removal of auto admin creation
------------------------------
The auto admin user creation code used during new installs has been removed and
it is its own reusable Django app. The app is available at
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-autoadmin

Removal of dependencies
-----------------------
Through optimizations and code reduction several Python libraries and Django
app are no longer required. These are:

* South
* GitPython
* django-pagination
* psutil
* python-hkp
* sendfile
* slate

ACL system re-factor
-------------------
The Access Control System has been greatly simplified and optimized. The
logistics to grant and revoke permissions are now as follows: Only Roles can
hold permissions, groups and user can no longer on their own be granted a
permission. Groups are now only organizational units that hold users and Roles
are collections of groups. User are just a profile and authentication
information object. So to grant a permission or access to a document to a user,
grant those permissions to a new or existing role, add the desired user to a
group and add that group to the role to which you granted the permission. When
thinking about granting permissions think of it this way:

**Permissions -> Roles -> Groups -> User**

**Permissions for a document -> Roles -> Groups -> User**

**Permissions for a type of document -> Roles -> Groups -> User**


Object access control inheritance
---------------------------------
A frequently asked feature is the ability to change the access control of a
group of documents. This feature has been implemented in the form of object
access control inheritance. This means that if you grant a permission to a role
for a document type, that role will inherit that permission for all document
that are later created of that type. If you revoke a permission from a role for
a document type, that role loses that permission for all documents of that type.
With this new system changing the access control of individual documents
should be an edge case. This new ability of modifying the access control of
document types is the new recommended method.

Removal of anonymous user support
---------------------------------
Allowing anonymous users access to your document repository is no longer
support. Administrators wanting to make a group of documents public are
encouraged to create an user, group and role for that purpose.

Metadata validators re-factor
----------------------------
The metadata validators have been split into: Validators and Parsers.
Validators will just check that the input value conforms to certain
specification, raising a validation error is not and blocking the user from
submitting data. The Parsers will transform user input and store the result as
the metadata value.

Trash can support
-----------------
To avoid accidental data loss, documents are not deleted but moved to a virtual
trash can. From that trash can documents can them be deleted permanently. The
deletion document documents and the moving of documents to the trash can are
governed by two different permissions.

Retention policies
------------------
Support for retention policies was added and is control on a document type basis.
Two aspects can be controlled: the time at which documents will be
automatically moved to the trash can and the time after which documents in the
trash can will be automatically deleted. By default all new document types
created will have a retention policy that doesn't move documents to the trash
can and that permanently deletes documents in the trash can after 30 days.

Support to share an index as a FUSE filesystem
----------------------------------------------
Index mirror has been added after being removed several version ago. This time
mirroring works by creating a FUSE filesystem that is then mounted anywhere in
the filesystem. The previous implementation used symbolic links that while
fast, required constant modification to keep in sync with the indexes structure
and only worked when the document storage and the index mirror resided in the
same physical computer or node. This new implementation allowing mirroring of
indexes even across a network or if the document storage is not a traditional
filesystem but a remote object store. Since this new FUSE mirroring uses direct
read access to the database caching is provided and is controlled by the
**MIRRORING_DOCUMENT_CACHE_LOOKUP_TIMEOUT** and **MIRRORING_NODE_CACHE_LOOKUP_TIMEOUT**
setting options. Both setting have a default of 10 seconds.

Clickable preview images titles
-------------------------------
To reduce the amount of clicks required to access a document, document previews
titles are now clickable and will take the user straight to the document view.

Removal of eval
---------------
Use of Python's eval statement has been completely removed. Metadata type
defaults, lookup fields, smart links and indexes templates now use Django's
own template language.

Smarter OCR
-----------
Document OCR workflow has been improved to try to parse text for each document
page and in failing to parse text will only perform OCR on that specific page,
returning to the parsing behavior for the next page. This allowing proper text
extraction of documents containing both, embedded text and images.

Failure tolerance
-----------------
Previous versions made use of transactions to prevent data loss in the event of
an unexpected error. This release improves on that approach by also reacting
to infrastructure failures. **Mayan EDMS** can now recover without any or
minimal data loss from critical events such as loss of connectivity to the
database manager. This changes allow installation of using database managers
that do not provide guaranteed concurrency such as SQLite, to scale to thousand
of documents. While this configuration is still not recommended, **Mayan EDMS**
will now work and scale much better in environments where parts of the
infrastructure cannot be changed (such as the database manager).

For more information about this change read the blog post:
http://blog.robertorosario.com/testing-django-project-infrastructure-failure-tolerance/

As a result of this work a new Django app called Django-sabot was created that
gives Django projects the ability to create unit tests for infrastructure
failure tolerance: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-sabot

RGB tags
--------
Previously tags could only choose from a predetermined number of color. This
release changes that and tags be of any color. Tags now store the color
selected in HTML RGB format. Existing tags are automatically converted to this
new scheme.

Default document type and default document source
-------------------------------------------------
After installation a default document type and document source are created,
this means that users can start uploading documents as soon as **Mayan EDMS**
is installed without having to do any configuration setting changes. The
default document type and default document source are both called 'Default'.

Link unbinding
--------------
Support for allowing 3rd party apps to unbind links binded by the core apps
was added to further improve re-branding and customization.

Statistics re-factor
-------------------
Statistics gathering and generation has been overhauled to allow for the
creation of scheduled statistics. This allows statistics computation to be
scheduled during low load times. A new management command was added to
purge stale or orphan schedules left behind by the editing of statistics
scheduled. The command is `purgestatistics` and has no parameters.

Apps merge
----------
Several app were merge to reduce complexity of the code based on function.
These are: the `home`, `common`, `project_tools` and `project_setup` apps,
as well as the `documents` and `document_acls` apps.

New signals
-----------
Two new signals are provided to better trigger processing documents at the
correct moment, these are:

* common/perform_upgrade - Launched on the `performupgrade` management command
  to allow 3rd party apps to execute custom upgrade procedures in an unified
  manner.
* common/post_initial_setup - Launched on the `initialsetup` management command
  to allow for post install initialization or setup.
* common/post_upgrade - Launched after the `performupgrade` management command
  finishes.
* documents/post_version_upload = Launched after a new document version is
  uploaded.
* document/post_document_type_change = Launched after the document type of a
  document is changed.
* documents/post_document_created = Launched after a document is finally ready
  to be accessed, not when it is created.
* ocr/post_document_version_ocr - Launched when the OCR of a document version
  has finished.

Test improvements
-----------------
Instead of a flat tests.py file, each app now has a tests/ directory containing
tests modules for each particular aspect of an apps, ie: test_models.py,
test_views.py, test_classes.py. The total number and coverage of tests has been
greatly increased.

Indexes recalculation
---------------------
Indexes are now recalculated on when a new document is ready as well as the
when the metadata of a document changes. This allows indexing documents not
only based on their metadata but also based on their properties.

Upgrade command
---------------
To reduce the steps and complexity of upgrades, the new `performupgrade`
management command was been added. All the upgrade steps will be performed
by this command.

Admin changes
-------------
Installation admins are no longer required to have the `superusers` or `staff`
Django account flags. All setup tasks are now governed by a permission which
can be assigned to a role.

OCR functions split
-------------------
The textual content of a document as interpreted by the OCR now resides as data
in the `ocr` app and not in the `documents` app as before. OCR content might
not be available for all documents after the upgrade and might need to be
queued again. To help with this situation there is new tool called `OCR all
documents` for this exact situation.

New internal document creation workflow
---------------------------------------
The new document upload code now returns a document stub while content is
processing. This allows API users to have the document id of the document
just uploaded and perform other actions on it while it becomes ready
for access.

Auto logging
------------
App logging to the console is now automatically enabled. If Django's DEBUG
flag is `True` the default level for auto logging is `DEBUG`. If Django's
DEBUG flag is `False` (as in production), the default level changes to `INFO`.
This should make it easier to add relevant messages to issue tickets as
well as a adecuate logging during production.

Other changes
-------------

* Merge of document_print and document_hard_copy views.
* New class based and menu based navigation system.
* Re-purpose the installation app.
* New class based transformations.
* Usage of Font Awesome icons set.
* Move document text content display code to the OCR app.
* Add new permissions PERMISSION_OCR_CONTENT_VIEW.
* Document type OCR settings move to the OCR app.
* New dependencies:

  * PyYAML
  * django-autoadmin
  * django-pure-pagination
  * djangorestframework-recursive

* Management command to remove obsolete permissions: `purgepermissions`.
* Normalization of 'title' and 'name' fields to 'label'.
* Improved API, now at version 1.
* Invert page title/project name order in browser title.
* Use Django's class based views pagination.
* Reduction of text strings.
* OCR all documents.
* Add tool to OCR all documents of a type.
* Fix rendering of text files with Unicode characters.
* Capture body of emails as a text document.
* All app APIs are top level URLs.
* CI using gitlab-ci.
* Coverage report with codecov.io.
* Thumbnails for documents in trash.
* Production deployment documentation chapter.
* Command line to create an initial settings file: `createsettings`.
* Initialsetup now continues even is a settings/local.py exists.
* default_app_config for each app.
* Natural key support for many models allowing database migrations using dumped data.
* Separate documentation requirements file to allow for contributor who only want to work on documentation.
* Centralized testing with a new management command, `runtests`.
* Addition of a tox testing configuration.
* Email test body capture.
* Email subject and from values storage.
* Gitlab CI support.
* Codecov support.
* Improve text file rendering.
* Show other packages licenses.
* Task delay to allow DB replication.
* Automatic debug logging and info logging during production.

Removals
--------
* Removal of the CombinedSource class.
* Removal of default class ACLs.
* Removal of the ImageMagick and GraphicsMagick converter backends.
* Remove support for applying roles to new users automatically.
* Removal of the DOCUMENT_RESTRICTIONS_OVERRIDE permission.
* Removed the page_label field.
* Removal of custom HTTP 505 error view.

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

During the migration several messages of stale content types can occur:

.. code-block:: bash

    The following content types are stale and need to be deleted:

        XX | XX

    Any objects related to these content types by a foreign key will also
    be deleted. Are you sure you want to delete these content types?
    If you're unsure, answer 'no'.

        Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel:


You can safely answer "yes" to all.

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

Remove unused dependencies::

    $ pip uninstall South
    $ pip uninstall GitPython
    $ pip uninstall psutil
    $ pip uninstall python-hkp
    $ pip uninstall django-sendfile
    $ pip uninstall django-pagination
    $ pip uninstall slate

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* Current document and document sources transformations will be lost during upgrade.
* Permissions and Access Controls granted to users and/or groups will be lost during upgrade.

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitHub issue #33 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/33>`_ Update to Django 1.7
* `GitHub issue #59 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/59>`_ New bootstrap based UI
* `GitHub issue #60 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/60>`_ Backport class based navigation code from the unstable branch
* `GitHub issue #62 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/62>`_ Simplify and reduce code in templates
* `GitHub issue #67 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/67>`_ Python 3 compatibility: Update models __unicode__ methdo to __str__ methods (using Django's six library)
* `GitHub issue #121 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/121>`_ Twitter Bootstrap theme for Mayan EDMS
* `GitHub issue #155 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/155>`_ Header does not fit list on documents/list on small screens (laptop)
* `GitHub issue #170 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/170>`_ Remove use of python-hkp
* `GitHub issue #182 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/182>`_ Reorganize signal processors
* `GitLab issue #131 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/131>`_ error on initialsetup: GPG initialization error
* `GitLab issue #135 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/135>`_ Add document indexing filesystem mirroring
* `GitLab issue #141 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/141>`_ Merge common and main app
* `GitLab issue #142 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/142>`_ New authentication app
* `GitLab issue #145 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/145>`_ Convert document tags to user RGB value for code instead of predetermined choices
* `GitLab issue #150 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/150>`_ Add 'trash can' support
* `GitLab issue #151 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/151>`_ Add support for data retention policies
* `GitLab issue #152 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/152>`_ JSON API 500 error
* `GitLab issue #154 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/154>`_ /documents API endpoint should return document pk
* `GitLab issue #155 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/155>`_ Remove unused document page label field
* `GitLab issue #156 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/156>`_ Remove post OCR language cleanup
* `GitLab issue #158 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/158>`_ Django REST Swagger not working
* `GitLab issue #159 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/159>`_ Error during template rendering on /document/folder/add with non-admin user
* `GitLab issue #160 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/160>`_ Add audit logging
* `GitLab issue #163 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/163>`_ Removal of the compressed file support
* `GitLab issue #164 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/164>`_ Keep fancybox prev & next buttons enabled all the time
* `GitLab issue #167 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/167>`_ Add workflow completion number to states
* `GitLab issue #168 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/168>`_ Add field to store last error of source during execution
* `GitLab issue #171 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/171>`_ tesseract fails with german language (wrong abbreviation)
* `GitLab issue #173 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/173>`_ Add post_document_upload signal
* `GitLab issue #174 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/174>`_ Bootstrap UI with master branch
* `GitLab issue #176 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/176>`_ Replace default email domain
* `GitLab issue #177 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/177>`_ Multi page tiff preview is not working
* `GitLab issue #178 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/178>`_ Add separate missing optional metadata and missing required metadata tools
* `GitLab issue #181 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/181>`_ Move task <-> queue assignment to apps.py
* `GitLab issue #182 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/182>`_ Document tags widget is not permissions aware
* `GitLab issue #183 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/183>`_ Separate metadata validators into: validators and parsers
* `GitLab issue #184 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/184>`_ Move literals in checkouts apps.py and tasks.py to literals.py
* `GitLab issue #186 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/186>`_ Scheduled task to delete all document stubs of more than X age.
* `GitLab issue #187 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/187>`_ Add tests for multi page tiff files
* `GitLab issue #189 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/189>`_ Use transient queues
* `GitLab issue #190 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/190>`_ Bump API version number
* `GitLab issue #192 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/192>`_ Use local model for document comments
* `GitLab issue #197 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/197>`_ Add continuous integration that is compatible with Gitlab
* `GitLab issue #201 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/201>`_ Untranslated items
* `GitLab issue #202 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/202>`_ AutoAdminSingleton matching query does not exist.
* `GitLab issue #203 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/203>`_ KeyError at /sources/upload/document/new/interactive/
* `GitLab issue #204 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/204>`_ Problems to add required metadata after changin the document type
* `GitLab issue #216 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/216>`_ Add default_app_config value to each app
* `GitLab issue #223 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/223>`_ [Documents] Trigger event_document_type_change on the model not on the view
* `GitLab issue #227 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/227>`_ decoder zip not available
* `GitLab issue #228 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/228>`_ Attribute error when trying to attach a tag for a user with inadequate permissions
* `GitLab issue #229 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/229>`_ Attribute error when a user tries to download a document - version 2.0.0b2
* `GitLab issue #230 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/230>`_ No option to create new document version even though user given permission in document ACL
* `GitLab issue #231 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/231>`_ User shown option to upload new version of a document even though it is blocked by checkout - v2.0.0b2
* `GitLab issue #233 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/233>`_ Available users instead of available groups
* `GitLab issue #237 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/237>`_ Forcefully checking in a document by a user without adequate permissions throws out an error


.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
