===============================
Mayan EDMS v2.1.8 release notes
===============================

Released: February 12, 2017

What's new
==========

This is a bug-fix release and all users are encouraged to upgrade. The focus
of this micro release was REST API improvement.

Changes
-------------

- Fixes in the trashed document API endpoints.
- Improved tags API PUT and PATCH endpoints.
- Bulk document adding when creating and editing tags.
- The version of django-mptt is preserved in case mayan-cabinets is installed.
- Add Django GPG API endpoints for singing keys.
- Add API endpoints for the document states app.
- Add API endpoints for the messsage of the day (MOTD) app.
- Add Smart link API endpoints.
- Add writable versions of the Document and Document Type serializers (GitLab issues #348 and #349).

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitLab issue #310 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/310>`_ Metadata's lookup with chinese messages when new document
* `GitLab issue #348 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/348>`_ REST API: Document version comments are not getting updated
* `GitLab issue #349 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/349>`_ REST API: Document Label, Description are not able to update

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
