================================
Mayan EDMS v2.1.11 release notes
================================

Released: March 14, 2017

What's new
==========

This is a bug-fix release and all users are encouraged to upgrade. The focus
of this micro release was REST API improvement.

Changes
-------------

- Added a quick rename serializer to the document type API serializer.
- Added per document type, workflow list API view. The URL for this endpoint is
  GET /api/document_states/document_type/{pk}/workflows/
- Added Developer Certificate of Origin. Mayan EDMS was adopted a version 1.1 of
  the Linux Foundation Developer Certificate of Origin. All commits must be
  signed (`git commit -s`) in order to be merged.
- Added the detail url of a permission in the permission serializer.
- Added endpoints for the ACL app API.
- Implemented document workflows transition ACLs. GitLab issue #321.
- Add document comments API endpoints. GitHub issue #249.
- Add support for overriding the Celery class. The setting is named
  MAYAN_CELERY_CLASS and expects a dotted python path to the class to use.
- Changed the document upload view in source app to not use the HTTP referer
  URL blindly, but instead recompose the URL using known view name. Needed
  when integrating Mayan EDMS into other app via using iframes.
- Addes size field to the document version serializer.
- Removed the serializer from the deleted document restore API endpoint
  it doesn't need a serializer being just an action POST endpoint.
- Added support for adding or editing document types to smart links via the
  API.

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `Github issue #249 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/249>`_ Add document comments API [$50 US]
* `GitLab issue #321 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/321>`_ Transition ACLS
* `GitLab issue #357 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/357>`_ It should be possible to retrieve all workflows for a given DocumentType from the API

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
