===============================
Mayan EDMS v2.1.5 release notes
===============================

Released: November 8, 2016

What's new
==========

This is a bug-fix release and all users are encouraged to upgrade.

Other changes
-------------

- Backport resize transformation math operation fix (GitLab #319).
- Update Pillow to 3.1.2

    - https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.4.x/releasenotes/3.1.1.html
    - https://pillow.readthedocs.io/en/3.4.x/releasenotes/3.1.2.html

- Backport zoom performance improvement (GitLab #334).
- Backport trash can navigation link resolution fix (GitLab #331).
- Improve documentation regarding the use of GPG version 1 (GitLab #333).
- Fix ACL create view HTML response type. (GitLab #335).
- Expland staging folder and watch folder explanation.

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitLab issue #319 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/319>`_ TransformationResize issue with very "long" image
* `GitLab issue #331 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/331>`_ Trash List View: Items actions should be limited
* `GitLab issue #333 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/333>`_ "Unable to run gpg - it may not be available."
* `GitLab issue #334 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/334>`_ Perfomance improvment: prevent unnecessary image.resize in TransformationZoom
* `GitLab issue #335 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/335>`_ Wrong HTML Content-Type in ACL->NEW


.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
