=============================
Mayan EDMS v2.3 release notes
=============================

Released: June 08, 2017

What's new
==========

This is a bug-fix and minor feature release and all users are encouraged to
upgrade.

Changes
-------------
- Index node expression template field changed from a 128 character field to an
  unlimited size text field to allow for complex indexing expressions.
- When updating the metadata of a document, any input in the value form field
  will select the adjacent checkbox.
- Support for passing the FUSE option `allow-other` and `allow-root` was added
  to the index mirroring management command.
- Added support for checking for the latest released version of Mayan from the
  About menu.
- Added support for rebuilding specific indexes instead of only being able to
  rebuild all index. GitLab issue #372.
- Rewrite document indexing code to be faster and use less locking. Thanks to
  Macrobb Simpson (@Macrobb) for the initial implementation.
- Use a predefined file path for the file lock.
- Catch documents with not document version when displaying their thumbnails.
- Add custom script_prefix aware resolve function and use it for the
  document page navigation views. Fixes an issue when Mayan is installed
  as a sub URL app. Thanks to Gustavo Teixeira(@gsteixei) for the issue and
  investigation.
- Support was added to update document indexes after workflow state changes.
- An helper was added to access a documents workflow by name. To this end
  a new field was added to the Workflow class called `Internal name`.
  This new field makes it much easier to get a document's workflow instance.
  If for example a document has a workflow called `Publish` with the internal
  name `publish_workflow`, it will be accessible in the indexing template as
  {{ document.workflow.publish_workflow }}. The latest state of the workflow
  can be accessed using {{ document.workflow.publish_workflow.get_current_state }}.
- Added a new API endpoint to display a list of all the available search models.

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitLab issue #371 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/371>`_ Auto select checkbox when updating metadata
* `GitLab issue #372 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/372>`_ (Feature request) Allow 'rebuild index' to rebuild only a selected index
* `GitLab issue #383 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/383>`_ Page not found when deployed to sub-uri
* `GitLab issue #385 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/385>`_ mountindex: how to specify FUSE mount option allow_other?

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
