=============================
Mayan EDMS v2.4 release notes
=============================

Released: June 23, 2017

What's new
==========

SANE document source
--------------------
A new document source has been added with the ability to retrieve documents from
scanners directly. This new document source uses the SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy)
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scanner_Access_Now_Easy) API client to communicate
with USB and network scanners. SANE must be properly installed for this document
source to work. Your scanner must also be supported by the SANE API
(http://www.sane-project.org/sane-supported-devices.html).

Automatic PDF orientation detection
-----------------------------------
The orientation of PDF documents is now detected at creation and a rotation
transformation applied to each of the document's pages to correct the orientation.

Environment variables
---------------------
Configuration options can now be updated from environment variables. To update
a configuration option, prepend the string `MAYAN_` to the name of the configuration
option. For example, to increase the number of documents displayed per search results
page (from a default of 40) to 50 documents, set the environment variable
MAYAN_COMMON_PAGINATE_BY to 50 with::

    $ export MAYAN_COMMON_PAGINATE_BY=50

and restart Mayan EDMS. A list of the configuration options can be found in the
`Setup` menu, under `Settings`.

Math filters
------------
The django-mathfilters (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-mathfilters) package
has been included to provide proper math filters in the indexes. An example of
this is indexing documents by quarter::

    {% load mathfilters %}{{ document.metadata_value_of.date|date:"Y"}}Q{{ document.metadata_value_of.date|date:"m"|sub:1|intdiv:3|add:1 }}


Expand searchable objects
-------------------------
Previously, only documents and later on document pages were searchable. This release
add support for searching for tags, metadata types and cabinets. This search support
is available via the dynamic search API.

Management command to reset locks
---------------------------------
During testing or development error occur and locks can remain behind, blocking
execution of a process or task until they expire. To help resolve this a
management command has been added called `purgelocks` that will delete all locks
in the system.

Index by workflow state
-----------------------
Support was added to update the a document indexes from workflow state changes.
To make workflow referencing easier from the index template, a new fields was
added to the workflow model called internal_name. For example, for a workflow
called `Publishing Workflow` with an internal name of `publishing_workflow`,
use the following string to reference the current state in an index::

    {{ document.workflow.publishing_workflow.get_current_state }}


Task manager
------------
A new app to monitor the distribution and consumption of background task has been
added. This app is call `Task manager` and can be found in the `Tools` menu.
Use this new tool to diagnose your background task workers or to determine when
to scale up the number of workers.


Other Changes
-------------
- Improve render of documents with no pages.
- Fix repeated permission list API URL. GitLab issue #389.
- Fix role creation API endpoint not returning id. GitLab issue #390.
- Fix index rebuilding for multi value first levels. GitLab issue #391.
- Add hardware requirements. GitHub issue #247.
- Fix URL query string encoding for the document page navigation views. GitLab
  issue #383.
- Truncate views titles via the APPEARANCE_MAXIMUM_TITLE_LENGTH setting.
  GitLab issue #217.
- Add link to show a document's OCR errors. GitLab issue #291.

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitHub issue #247 <https://github.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/247>`_ Hardware requirements
* `GitLab issue #132 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/132>`_ Task queue viewer
* `GitLab issue #217 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/217>`_ [Documents] Truncate document label for avoid double lines in mobile or reduce font
* `GitLab issue #221 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/221>`_ Add flush lock management command
* `GitLab issue #291 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/291>`_ Link to OCR error log from document OCR tab
* `GitLab issue #344 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/344>`_ Add support for searching folders, tags, metadata.
* `GitLab issue #383 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/383>`_ Page not found when deployed to sub-uri
* `GitLab issue #387 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/387>`_ Document Scanning not Functioning on rotated landscape PDF's
* `GitLab issue #389 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/389>`_ How can we map permissions with a particular role using REST API?
* `GitLab issue #390 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/390>`_ Id is not getting in response
* `GitLab issue #391 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/391>`_ "Rebuild indexes" does not work in Mayan EDMS 2.3

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
