===============================
Mayan EDMS v2.6.3 release notes
===============================

Released: July 25, 2017

What's new
==========

This is a bug fix release and users are encouraged to upgrade.

Changes
-------
- Add makefile target to launch a PostgreSQL container.
- Use resolve_url instead of redirect to resolve the post login URL.
- Make the intialsetup and performupgrade management tasks work
  with signals to allow customization from 3rd party apps.
- PEP8 cleanups.
- Add tag_ids keyword argument to the Source.handle_upload
  model method. GitLab issue #413.
- Add overflow wrapping so wrap long titles in Firefox too.
- Makes Roles searchable. GitLab issue #402.
- Add line numbers to the debug and production loggers.
  Add date and time to the production logger.
- Add support for generating setup.py from a template. GitLab
  #149 #200.
- Add fade in animation to document images.

Removals
--------
* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
~~~~~~~~~

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.

Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt

Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
=============================

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitLab issue #149 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/149>`_ Autogenerate setup.py
* `GitLab issue #200 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/200>`_ dependencies in setup.py not up to date with requirements
* `GitLab issue #402 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/402>`_ Make permissions and roles searchable.
* `GitLab issue #413 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/413>`_ source.models.Source.handle_upload does not support tag_ids but upload_document does

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
