Version 2.7.1
=============

Released: September 3, 2017

Changes
-------

Unicode metadata when uploading a document
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An issue with Django's unquote_plus caused documents being uploaded with an
unicode, no English character in an initial metadata value field to fail.
The unquote_plus usage was remove in favor of a dedicate URL parsing library
called furl. GitLab issue #423. Thanks to Gustavo Teixeira (@gsteixei) for the
find.


Silent errors during initialization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When Python raises an ImportError exception, it is not possible to determine
the cause of the error. The local.py import code was updated to interpret the
text of the ImportError exception and ignore it only if the local.py was
missing, which is the case during the initialization commands execute after
the initial installation. Any error in the local.py file will now cause Mayan
to exit. Thanks to MacRobb Simpson for the report and solution.


String usage in the local.py file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Python 2.7 uses byte strings by default. Byte strings cannot be used in
conjunction with unicode strings. A missing import was causing strings in
the local.py file to be interpreted as byte string while the rest of Mayan
uses unicode strings. Using non English special characters in a string located
in the local.py file would have cause a Unicode errors. For new installations
from Mayan version 2.7.1 onwards, the line
``from __future__ import absolute_imports, unicode_literals`` is included when
generating the local.py for the first time. For existing installations,
adding this line at the top is all that's needed. GitLab issue #424. Thanks to
Gustavo Teixeira (@gsteixei) for the find and researching the cause.


Removals
--------
* None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

Using PIP
^^^^^^^^^

Type in the console::

    $ pip install -U mayan-edms

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

* None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

* :gitlab-issue:`423` Metadata can't handle non ascii chars on upload
* :gitlab-issue:`424` DjangoUnicodeDecodeError on document proprieties due document language field

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
