Version 3.1.2
=============

Released: September 21, 2018

Changes
-------

- Database access in data migrations defaults to the 'default' database.
  Force it to the user selected database instead.
- Don't use a hardcoded database alias for the destination of the
  database conversion.
- Improve natural key support in the UserOptions model.
- Update from Django 1.11.11 to 1.11.15.
- Add support to the convertdb command to operate on specified apps
  too.
- Add test mixin to test the db conversion (dumping and loading) of a
  specific app.
- Add an user test mixin to group user testing.
- Add test the user management app for database conversion.
- Add support for natural keys to the DocumentPageImageCache model.
- Add database conversion test to the common app.
- Fix label display for resolved smart links when not using a dynamic
  label.
- Only show smart link resolution errors to the user with the smart link
  edit permission.
- Intercept document list view exception and display them as an error
  message.


Removals
--------

* None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------


If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.1.2

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

* None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

* None

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
