Version 3.1.6
=============

Released: October 9, 2018


Changes
-------

* Improve index mirroring value clean up code to remove the spaces at the
  starts and at the end of directories. Closes again GitLab issue #520
  Thanks to TheOneValen @ for the report.
* Improve index mirroring cache class to use the hash of the keys
  instead of the literal keys. Avoid warning about invalid key
  characters. Closes GitLab issue #518. Thanks to TheOneValen @ for the
  report.
* Only render the Template API view for authenticated users.
  Thanks rgarcia for the report.
* Add icon to the cabinet "Add new level" link.
* Display the cabinet "Add new level" link in the top level view too.


Removals
--------

* None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.1.6

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

* None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

* :gitlab-issue:`518` mountindex broken (3.1.x)
* :gitlab-issue:`520` Newline handling in template expression for index when mounting the index

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
