===============================
Mayan EDMS v3.1.5 release notes
===============================

Released: October XX, 2018

* Consolidate some document indexing test code into a new mixin.
* Split the code of the mountindex command to be able to add tests.
* Fix the way the children of IndexInstanceNode are accessed. Fixes
  GitLab issue #518. Thanks to TheOneValen @TheOneValen for the report.
* Remove newlines from the index name levels before using them as FUSE
  directories.
* Fixed duplicated FUSE directory removal.

Removals
--------

* None

Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------


If installed via Python's PIP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.1.5

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
~~~~~~~~~

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

* None

Bugs fixed or issues closed
===========================

* `GitLab issue #518 <https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/issues/518>`_ mountindex broken (3.1.x)

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
