Version 3.1.3
=============

Released: September 26, 2018

Changes
-------

* Make sure template API renders in non US languages.
* Fix user groups view.
* Add no results help text to the document type -> metadata type
  association view.
* Expose the Django ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting.
* Add support for changing the concurrency of the Celery workers in the
  Docker image. Add environment variables ``MAYAN_WORKER_FAST_CONCURRENCY``,
  ``MAYAN_WORKER_MEDIUM_CONCURRENCY`` and ``MAYAN_WORKER_SLOW_CONCURRENCY``.


Removals
--------

* None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------


If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.1.3

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

* None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

* :gitlab-issue:`513` Unicode problem on GET '/api/templates/main_menu/' with german translation

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
