Version 3.2.7
=============

Released: August 28, 2019


Changes
-------

- Fix checkouts form bug. Fixes GitLab issue #654
  Thanks to Lucius Schaerer (@lschaer1) for the report.
- Disable pagination current page button
  Current page button was clickable and would cause the
  single page navigation to jump to the home view.
- Remove redundant Celery queue declarations from the
  file_metadata app.
- Add internal_name field to workflow serializer.
  Fixes workflow API creation view.
- Fix document cabinet list API view. Thanks for forum user
  "jere" for the report. Forum topic 1039.
- Fix document template column field. GitLab issue #655.
  Thanks to Christian Wiegand (@christianwgd) for the
  report.
- Increase mailing profile password field max length
  from 48 to 128 characters. GitLab issue #657.
  Thanks to sigsec (@sigsec) for the report.
- Update the Docker entrypoint to update the ownership
  of files when the UID of GUID are changed.
  GitLab issue #650. Thanks to Fabian (@ruffy91)
  for the report.
- Update the Docker entrypoint to allow changing
  the GID of the mayan user to existing values.
  GitLab issue #652. Thanks to Fabian (@ruffy91)
  for the report.
- Rename the MAYAN_USER_GUID environment variable
  to MAYAN_USER_GID.
- Backport individual index rebuild support.
- Add automatic adjustment of HTML body on navigation
  bar changes. Closes GitLab issue #643. Thanks to
  Light Templar (@LightTemplar) for the report.
- Unify all line endings to be Linux style.
- Make sure system alerts don't appear under
  floating elements.

Removals
--------

- None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    sudo -u mayan curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt -o /tmp/removals.txt && sudo -u mayan /opt/mayan-edms/bin/pip uninstall -y -r /tmp/removals.txt

Type in the console::

    sudo -u mayan /opt/mayan-edms/bin/pip install mayan-edms==3.2.7

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Make a backup of your supervisord file::

    sudo cp /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf.bck

Update the supervisord configuration file. Replace the environment
variables values show here with your respective settings. This step will refresh
the supervisord configuration file with the new queues and the latest
recommended layout::

    sudo MAYAN_DATABASE_ENGINE=django.db.backends.postgresql MAYAN_DATABASE_NAME=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_PASSWORD=mayanuserpass MAYAN_DATABASE_USER=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_HOST=127.0.0.1 MAYAN_MEDIA_ROOT=/opt/mayan-edms/media \
    /opt/mayan-edms/bin/mayan-edms.py platformtemplate supervisord > /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf

Edit the supervisord configuration file and update any setting the template
generator missed::

    sudo vi /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf

Migrate existing database schema with::

    sudo -u mayan MAYAN_DATABASE_ENGINE=django.db.backends.postgresql MAYAN_DATABASE_NAME=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_PASSWORD=mayanuserpass MAYAN_DATABASE_USER=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_HOST=127.0.0.1 MAYAN_MEDIA_ROOT=/opt/mayan-edms/media \
    /opt/mayan-edms/bin/mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    sudo -u mayan MAYAN_MEDIA_ROOT=/opt/mayan-edms/media \
    /opt/mayan-edms/bin/mayan-edms.py preparestatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

- None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

- :gitlab-issue:`643` The "Actions" button won't show up, if window size between 992 and 1248 px
- :gitlab-issue:`650` Permission denied when MAYAN_USER_UID and MAYAN_USER_GUID are set
- :gitlab-issue:`652` MAYAN_USER_GUID cannot be set to specific values
- :gitlab-issue:`654` Internal Server Error, Document Checkout
- :gitlab-issue:`655` Index setup tree view shows two times the "enabled" field instead of "Link documents"
- :gitlab-issue:`657` Mailer password length restriction is too short
- :forum-topic:`1039` Re: /api/documents/{id}/cabinets returns 500
- :forum-topic:`1050` edit/delete sub-cabinet

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
