Version 3.2
===========

Released: May XX, 2019

Work on version 4.0 continues along. Version 4.0 brings so many changes that it
missed its release schedule. Therefore we decided to release an interim version,
this one. This version includes bug fixes and back-ports many improvements
already in the 4.0 development version. It also helps bridge the gap between
the internal code and interfaces between the 3.x and 4.x code branches. The
minor increment means that user-facing backward incompatible changes are
minimal. Most of the changes are internal and of notice for developers.

That doesn't mean there are no changes important to users. This release brings
about one third (1/3) of the user interface changes that have already landed
in the 4.0 version.

Besides the usual template and style tweaks, this version adds a new contextual
navigation bar. This bar is a hybrid between a list menu bar and a sidebar
menu. Icons in this menu object will show in the object list view and when
the object is the main object in the template. This reduces substantial mouse
travel and clicks, as most views of the object now remain "open" in the sidebar
instead of being hidden inside the "Actions" drop down.

The "Actions" drop-down will now divide the available actions links depending on
the menu that defines them ("action", "secondary") and the object that they
act upon. This is useful on views that can display more than one object at a
time such as the setup views. During the workflow setup view, now the action
links will be split between action for the workflow, for the state, and for
the transition making setup navigation much faster and requiring less
mental effort as the user no longer need to remember which link affects which
view object.

Another big user interface change that landed on this version is the ability
to sort lists of objects by column fields. Sortable fields will have their
column heading displayed as an HTML link. Clicking on a column heading link
will sort the list by the values of the column. Clicking the heading again
will invert the sort order. A small arrow icon will show the sort order.

A new app was added to the core. The app is named "File metadata" and allows
extracting file information. The app includes a driver by default to extract
EXIF field information. This file field includes camera information for photos,
authors for office documents and PDFs and other information that can now be
used to search or index documents. This app was previously a separate app called
Mayan-EXIF (https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/exif). The app was generalized and
is now part of the core group of apps.

This is a "minor" release only in version number scheme since it includes a
big number of code changes. The minor number increase means that it will be
as backward compatible with version 3.1.10 as possible.


Changes
-------


API
^^^

The API documentation generation code was moved from the root module where it
was out of place to the REST API app. The published URLs however remain the
same and backwards compatible.


Apps
^^^^

Dependencies app: A new app was added to handle all dependencies. Previously,
the code to handle JavaScript dependencies and license text collection, was
contianed in the common app. This new app, called "dependencies" now handles
both tasks. In addition, it provides checks for binary dependencies.
This app's main view will allow users to know which dependencies are not being
recognized and help debug installation issues faster and easier. The app
supports Python, JavaScript, and binary dependencies.

The JavaScript library download and installation code was updated to provide
faster hash verification using block hashing. During tests the this change
cut verification time to just 28% of the previous time. Additionally, the
JavaScript downloader can now detect existing installations of JavaScript
libraries and skip them for
even faster upgrade or startup times.

With the exception of the jQuery.ScrollView library there are no JavaScript
libraries of packages in the git repository of the code anymore. All JavaScript
are now downloaded at install time.

The dependencies app also has the ability to introspect packages and extract
copyright and license information. This removes the need to include such texts
explicitly in the code for all packages.

Dashboard app: All the code to defined and generate the dashboard was moved
from the common app into its own app called "dashboards". The functionality
remains the same but along with the formalized interface, the move will allow
future planned improvements to the dashboard functionality to be rolled out.
While only one dashboard will still be displayed, it is possible to define in
code more than one dashboard using the Dashboard class.

Autoadmin app: The autoadmin app which is in charge of creating the
initial admin user after the installation, has been included in the core. This
app is made by the same author of Mayan EDMS and at one time in the past was
part of the core apps.

File metadata: Allows extracting file information. The app includes a driver by
default to extract EXIF field information (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exif).
This is mostly multimedia information but the default driver can also extract
information from authorship from PDF and office files. The information extracted
by this app can be used to search or index documents.


Deprecations
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Internally many interfaces and calls have been deprecated in other to move the
code closer to 4.0's standard. The only feature deprecated on the user facing
side is the convertdb management command. This command was added to allow
existing installation using SQLite as the database manager to convert their
database to one of the recommended database managers.

After many reports the consensus was reached that this functionality is not
meant to be provided in the project. Software projects have little or no
control of the aspects upon which they rely. Framework, environment, platform,
OS, databases are such examples.

Database conversion is a task best suited for operations oriented software and
professional and no Mayan's end users. For these reason the database conversion
command has been deprecated and will be removed in the next major version.


Docker image
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Docker image updated to use Debian 9.8.

The size of the Docker image was reduced from 1.25 GB to 1.09 GB.

Support was added for setting the Docker container user's UID and GUID.

The Docker image now includes all static media like JavaScript libraries and
themes. This make the initial startup of the image faster as only the database
migration is execute and the restart of the image almost instant.


Events
^^^^^^

The events system received many updates. Now more apps register and record
events. Some new events recorded are:

- Document link mailing.
- Users creation, modification, log in and log out.
- Groups creation, modification.
- Roles creation, modification.
- Indexes creation, modification.
- ACLs creation, modification.
- Workflows creation, modification.
- Smart links creation, modification.
- Smart links creation, modification.

A new link was added under the User menu to show all the events of the
currently logged user.


Incompatible changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Existing config.yml files need to be updated manually and 'mayan.apps'
prepended to any reference to an app.

All the Internet Explorer specific HTML markup was removed from the templates.


Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installation seems to be the most error-prone stage of the process in getting
to use Mayan EDMS. Just like configuration, installation, and dependency
management are other areas where the underlying framework and language
don't provide tools and it is up to the project to come up with an alternative
to bridge the functionality gap.

This version includes a new dependency manager that is able to track the
dependencies of each app. The dependency manager supports JavaScript, Python,
and binary dependencies. This allows the dependency manager to also provide
users with a centralized view to diagnose their installations for missing
dependencies that may be affecting the functionality.

The dependency manager also includes improvements that will allow reusing
downloaded JavaScript packages and can perform hash verification faster.

Besides the dependency check view in the Tools menu, a management command was
added to show the same information from the command line. This command is called
``checkdependencies``.

Developers can also use the new ``generaterequirements`` command to generate the
Python requirement files from the dependencies declared in the apps of the
project, keeping all dependency files synchronized with ease.


Internals
^^^^^^^^^

Big or complex app modules were split into separate modules. This includes
models, views, and tests. A star (*) was added to keep current imports working
but it is encourage to import from the module itself.

For example:
The document apps models.py module was split into:

- documents/models/document_models.py
- documents/models/document_page_models.py
- documents/models/document_type_models.py
- documents/models/document_version_models.py
- documents/models/misc_models.py

The module documents/models/__init__.py include them all using a start import
so that any import to the path mayan.apps.documents.models still works.

Other modules that were split were:

- Workflow views and tests.
- Trashed document views.
- Favorite document views.

Development URL definitions were removed from the main URL definition file.
Instead, the top level ``urls.py`` file was converted into a module folder holding
several URL pattern definition files. Each URL pattern definition file can be
specified independently by changing the value of the ``ROOT_URLCONF`` setting.

Instead of inserting the path of the apps into the Python path, the apps are
now referenced by their full import path. For example: Instead of referencing
the Documents app using the string ``documents``, the full dotted path must be
used, ``mayan.apps.documents``. This change namespaces all apps under a module
folder and solves name clashes with external or native Python libraries. Once
example of such name clash: The statistics app was called "statistics" and
it clashed with Python's new statistics library of the same name. The solution
at the time was to rename Mayan's to "mayan_statistics". With this change
solutions like this won't be necessary.

This means that any reference to an app, either in the code or from a
configuration file must now be prepended with ``mayan.apps``. Existing
``config.yml`` files need to be updated manually.

For developers, a new test mixin was added called ``SilenceLoggerTestCaseMixin``.
It allows lowering the level of loggers during tests. To use this mixin call
``self._silence_logger()`` and provide the dotted path to the module whose message
level will be lowered. By default the new level will be set to critical.

Support was added for link icon path imports. Instead of importing all icons,
a link can reference the dotted path of the icon. The link argument for this is
called ``icon_class_path``.

Support for link icon strings was removed. Only icon classes are allowed now.
This keeps all icon definitions encapsulated in the ``icons.py`` modules.

Middleware were updated to support both, Django's old and new style
middleware.

A new class named ``FormOptions`` was added to reduce the boilerplate code needed
to add Meta options to custom Form classes. This class is used to create a new
reusable form that will filter a selection field based on a permission. This
reusable form is called ``FilteredSelectionForm``. This class is used to simplify
and unify the ``TagMultipleSelectionForm``, ``CabinetListForm``, ``ACLCreateForm``,
``IndexTemplateFilteredForm``, and ``DocumentVersionSignatureCreateForm``
subclasses.

Support was added for help text on extra fields of the ``DetailForm``.

Language choices generation was moved to ``documents.utils``.

The ``TwoStateWidget`` class was converted to work as a template widget. It is
also now compatible with ``SourceColumn`` and don't need to be evaluated using
lambdas.

The ``SourceColumn`` class received many updates to make is more versatile and
reduce the boilerplate code to define model columns. It now supports related
attributes using a double underscore separator. This eliminates the need of
functions or lambdas for related fields. Also added was support displaying a
placeholder text for empty attribute values. This eliminates the need to
create a model or class method to capture empty or None values and display a
translatable text. Support was added to enable an instance's absolute URL for a
column removing the need to add and define a single use link for a clickable
column. The ``SourceColumn`` class now supports keyword arguments via
``kwargs`` to pass to the column function.

The star import was removed from the ACL and Common app's ``__init__.py``
module. All ``acls.classes.ModelPermission``, ``common.generics``, and
``common.mixins`` imports have to done explicitly.

The authentication function views were updated to use Django's new class
based authentication views.

The current user views were moved from the common app to the user management
app. And vice versa the user and current user password change views were moved
to the authentication app from the user management app. Now everything related
to accounts resides in the user management app and anything relating to passwords
and authentication resides exclusively in the authentication app.

The custom email form widget provided by ``common.widget`` was removed as Django
now includes one.

All file related utilities were moved from the ``common.utils.py`` module to the
to the storage app's ``utils.py`` module.

The navigation and authentication templates were moved to their respective
apps. They are no longer found in the appearance app's templates folder.

General queryset slicing of the Document list view was removed and added to
the only subclass view that uses it which is the Recently Added Document view.

A new view called ``AddRemove`` was added which replaces ``AssignRemove``. All
views were updated and ``AssignRemove`` removed from the code. This class
offers a much cleaner design and more functionality like adding or removing
multiple items from a single post request. This is achieve by passing a
queryset of the selection instead of calling the add or remove methods for
each item of the selection.

A new test case mixin was added to provide ephemeral test models. These are
memory only model classes that allow tests to be performed much faster while
testing all aspects as if it were any other statically defined model. Several
test views that used documents models were converted for speed increases of
several order of magnitude. Along with ephemeral models, ephemeral test
permissions were added removing the need to use static permission for generic
permission compliance tests.

Move stub filtering to the Document model manager. All subclasses of the
``DocumentListView`` class were updated to simplify their document queryset
generation.

The transformation manager methods were renamed from ``add_for_model`` to
``add_to_object``, and ``get_for_model`` to ``get_for_object``, to reflect the
fact that they can only operate only models.

The title calculation was converted from a template markup to a template tag.

The permission inherited computation was improved and now operates mostly at the
database layer instead of being mostly a Python computation. A similar
improvement was done to the ACL calculation system. The ACL calculation now
operates mostly on the database layer freeing many resources and scaling better.
The access checking method was updated to be a wrapper for the new ACL queryset
calculation, reducing the amount of code and benefiting from the ACL queryset
calculation improvements.

Related to the ACL calculation updates is the fact that views will now operate
of a filtered queryset as returned by ``restrict_queryset`` instead of directly
checking the access of the action being performed by the view. The update
process of the views to this new methodology was started and will be completed
in the next versions. Eventually the ``.check_access`` method will be either
removed of used for special cases.

A small change with big repercussions is the rename of ``get_object_list`` to
``get_source_queryset``. This change represents a shift in the way views will
filter their queryset in the entire project. Since Django doesn't provide hooks
for transforming a queryset before usage by the view, instead of being passed
a model or a queryset directly, views will be passed a source queryset via
``get_source_queryset`` which will be filtered by ``restrict_queryset`` and this
final queryset will be passed to the view as if from its normal ``get_queryset``
method. This allows using views as they are normally provided by Django and add
Mayan's access control with minimal changes.

Uniqueness validation was added ``SingleObjectCreateView``.

``MultipleInstanceActionMixin`` was removed, ``MultipleObjectFormActionView``
or ``MultipleObjectConfirmActionView`` must be used instead. These two classes
provide action handling for single (using ``pk``) or multiple model instances (
using ``id_list``) from the single view definition.

``MultipleObjectMixin`` improvements were back ported. Selections are passed
using ``get_object_list`` or ``self.object_list``.

``ObjectListPermissionFilterMixin`` was removed.

The ``license.py`` module in apps was removed, licenses are now defined in
``dependencies.py`` for the ones that the dependency app can't introspect
automatically.

Model permission proxy models support were removed. The permission system can now
detect inherited permission from multiple levels. Related to this change the
``related`` access control argument to ``check_access``, links, API views
``mayan_permission_attribute_check`` was removed. This is all now handled by the
related field registration.

The permissions system now supports nested access control checking. Self
referencing models like ``Cabinets``, must provide a custom function to filter
their permission checking.

An optimization was added which removed the exception catch for the
``permissions`` argument of the ``check_access`` method. ``permissions``
argument must now be an iterable.

Signal handlers must now be prepended with ``handler``.

Remove ``.filter_by_access``. Replaced by ``.restrict_queryset``.

Rename the form template ``form_class`` to ``form_css_classes`` to
differentiate it from Python form classes.

All views now redirect to the ``common`` app's home view instead of the
``REDIRECT_URL`` setting.

The project was updated to PyYAML version 5.1. The use of ``safe_load`` and
``safe_dump`` was changed to ``load`` and ``dump`` using the ``CSafeLoader``
and ``SafeLoader`` as fallback. This makes YAML handling faster and safer.


Mailing
^^^^^^^

Mailing profiles were updated to allow specifying the email sender address.
This change closes GitLab issue #522.

If an existing mailer profile specified a backend that is now invalid instead
of showing an error it will be replaced by a new ``NullMailer`` class.

Due to the change of using the entire dotted path of apps, the backend
of existing mailing profiles will be invalid and must be re-created.

The document link URL when mailed is now composed of the ``COMMON_PROJECT_URL``
setting plus the document's URL instead of Django ``Site`` domain. This was
the only use of Django's ``Site`` model and was removed to an easier to configure
setup.


MERCs
^^^^^

Two new Mayan EDMS Requests for Comments were approved during version 4.0
development and applied to this release too.

MERC 5 now requires all callables to use explicit keyword arguments. This MERC
is effect makes positional arguments obsolete. These are only retained for
Python modules and callables that don't support named or keyword arguments.

MERC 6 introduces a security and privacy policy. This policy is a preemptive
information disclosure reduction. This means that code and views in general
will disclose less information than they used to when the user doesn't have
the required access for an object, view, or action. Instead of displaying
an "Access denied" or "Forbidden" error, a "Not found" or 404 error will be
raised. This way the user will not have any information about the existence
of a resource for which access has not been granted. To keep the API compatible
for this minor release, MERC 6 was put into place for the views only.

If you are developing a third party app, update your non-access view tests
to expect a 404 and not a 403 error.


Memory usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The code audit performed during the development of version 4.0 revealed many
areas where optimizations were possible. All the backward compatible
optimizations were backported to this version. These are:

- Block reading for document hash instead of loading the entire document's file
  into memory.
- A temporary file is used for mime type detection instead of reading the entire
  file into memory or just reading the first bytes of the file.
- Converter class is now initialization only when needed this allows more
  effective garbage collection.
- Use of file-like objects instead of buffers.
- The change to file-like objects allowed the use of Python's ``copyfileobj`` in
  several places.
- Only one language is loaded in the document properties form.
- Improved ACL system which moves computation of the access control to the
  database instead of doing the filtering in Python code.
- The language list was converted into a function instead of being used as a
  list in all instances.
- Use of context manager for all creation of file-like objects.
- Extensive use of temporary files for office document conversion instead of
  relying on easier to use but more wasteful memory buffers.

As a result, the memory footprint and CPU usage were lowered substantially.
Memory usage was lowered to 700MB of RAM under full load. This is great news
for all user but of special importance for restricted environments like low tier
virtual hosts, container deployments, and single board computers like the Odroid
or the Raspberry Pi.


OCR
^^^

Add new and default Tesseract OCR backend was added to avoid Tesseract bug 1670
(https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/issues/1670,
https://gitlab.gnome.org/World/OpenPaperwork/pyocr/issues/104). This bug make it
impossible to use Tesseract via PyOCR under Python 3.


Permissions
^^^^^^^^^^^

The role permission grant and revoke permissions were removed. Instead only the
role edit permission is required to grant or revoke permissions to a role.


Dual permissions are now required for some objects. For example, when adding or
removing users to and from a group, the edit permission must be granted to the
user and the group. These permission changes are minimal for this version but
will be rolled out to be the norm on the entire system.


Python 3
^^^^^^^^

Long awaited Python 3 support is here. To ensure a smooth transition only the
Python package will be release supporting Python 2.7 and 3. For the next
release, the Docker image will be converted to work on Python 3. And finally,
on the release of the next major version, version 4.0, Python 3 will be the
only Python version support. This version of Mayan EDMS, as well as future
versions of the same series (3.x) will be the last version supporting
python 2.7.

To recap:

- Version 3.2 = Python 2.7 & Python 3, Docker with Python 2.7.
- Version 3.3 = Python 2.7 & Python 3, Docker with Python 3.
- Future versions 3.x = Python 2.7 & Python 3, Docker with Python 3.
- Version 4.0 = Python 3 only, Docker with Python 3.

If important security issues are found subsequent series 3.x releases
will be done for users that can't for some reason upgrade to a version
using only Python 3.


Reliability
^^^^^^^^^^^

Database transaction handling was added in many more places to ensure data
integrity even in extreme situations.


Removals
^^^^^^^^

For each version, we identify functionality or requirements that can be removed.
For this version, Django suit was removed from requirements as well as support
for generating documents images in base 64 format.


Settings
^^^^^^^^

The ``HOME_VIEW`` setting was defined without a namespace and as a top level
setting. This configuration is reserved for native Django setting and the
``HOME_VIEW`` setting is now namespaced to the COMMON app where it is defined.
The setting global name therefore changes from ``HOME_VIEW`` to
``COMMON_HOME_VIEW``.

More Django settings were exposed and can now be modified:

- ``AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS``
- ``DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL``
- ``EMAIL_TIMEOUT``
- ``INTERNAL_IPS``
- ``LANGUAGES``
- ``LANGUAGE_CODE``
- ``LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL``
- ``STATIC_URL``
- ``STATICFILES_STORAGE``
- ``TIME_ZONE``
- ``WSGI_APPLICATION``


New default value of 65535 for the ``DOCUMENTS_HASH_BLOCK_SIZE`` setting. This
means that new documents will be read and process in blocks of 65K to determine
their SHA256 hash instead of being read entirely in memory.

Removal of the ``MIMETYPE_FILE_READ_SIZE`` setting. A new method was implemented
to reduce memory usage of the ``MIME`` type inspection code. Instead of limiting
the number of bytes read as specified by the ``MIMETYPE_FILE_READ_SIZE`` setting,
now the entire file is saved to a temporary file and the ``MIME`` type library
called with the temporary file reference. This approach while minimally slower
provides the benefits of lower memory usage without sacrificing ``MIME`` type
detection accuracy which was a downside of the ``MIMETYPE_FILE_READ_SIZE`` setting
approach.

Several improvements were back ported to the search app. One of this allows
returning the search result as a queryset. Queryset are "lazy" and not
evaluated until accessed. This means a queryset can represent a vast number
of documents with consuming the entire memory that would be required to hold
all the documents instances as a list would. This change make the memory
limiting setting ``SEARCH_LIMIT`` obsolete and was removed.

Additionally the search time elapsed calculation was removed. This code stopped
being used from the code several version ago.

The default value for the recently added, recently accessed, and favorite
documents settings was increased from 40 to 400. Using the default pagination
size of 40 documents per page than means a total of 10 pages of documents
for each of one of these views instead of just one page.

The setting ``COMMON_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY`` was moved to the storage app.
The setting is now called ``STORAGE_TEMPORARY_DIRECTORY``.


User interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Many user interface updates were back ported some very noticeable others less
so but still have a big impact on usability and navigation.

New icons classes and templates were added which allow many icon manipulations
like icon composition. This allow for a more unified visual language.

The right side menu, called the "sidebar" is now a separate unit in both markup
and code. This new side bar is implemented independently of the main view. This
change allows for independent scrolling and more usable screen area.

Support was added for sortable columns. These allow sorting the results of a
list by clicking on the column heading label. Clicking on the label again
reverses the sorting order.

select2 widget is used in more places reducing data entry and providing quick
search capabilities.

The markup for the invalid document image was converted into a server side
template for easier customization and reuse.

The ``sidebar`` menu instance was removed. The ``secondary`` menu now perform
the same function.

For every function that involved two types of objects, two views were added.
For example: Associating a workflow to a document type can now be done
from the workflow edit view or from the document type edit view. This eliminates
jump over from the view of one object type to the other.

Form can be submitted by pressing the Enter key or by double clicking.

The full name field was removed from the user list. Instead the first name and
last name fields are shows which are sortable.

Completion level and initial workflow state are now shown in the workflow proxy
instance menu.

Fix translation of the source upload forms using the drag and drop dropzone.js
widget.

Bootstrap and Bootswatch were updated to version 3.4.1.

Support was added for attaching form button aside from the default submit and
cancel. The new add and remove views use this allow adding all or removing all
with a single click.

CSS updates were added to maximize usable width of the screen.

Navigation error messages display was improved for easier debugging.

The permission list was removed from the ACL list view. This reduces clutter and
unpredictable column size. The permission list can be accesses by pressing the
"Permissions" button.

The default title truncation length was increased to 120 characters. Even when
truncated, hovering over the title will now show the entire title as a pop over.


Widgets
^^^^^^^

Previously form widgets and HTML widgets resided in the same .widgets.py module.
The .widgets.py module is now reserved for form widgets and HTML widgets will
be found in a new module called html_widgets for each app.

The interface for Mayan's HTML widget has been formalized and these can be used
with the ``SourceColumn`` class without having to use a lambda. The widget argument
was added to the ``SourceColumn`` was for this purpose.

The tag selection form widget uses some specialize JavaScript to support
rendering the tag during selection. This code used to live in the main template
and was loaded even when not in use. The JavaScript code was move to the tags
app and is now loaded only when used. This will cause a slight visual artifact
when the form is loaded. Aside from this visual side effect it continues to
work as before.


Other changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Convert the document tags widget to use HTML templates.
- Update ``ChoiceForm`` to be full height.
- Commit user edit event when an user is added or removed
  from a group.
- Commit the group edit event when a group is added or remove
  from an user.
- Commit the group event in conjunction with the role event
  when a group is added or remove from role.
- Monkeypatch group and user models to make their fields
  translatable.
- Add outline links CSS for facets.
- Add a bottom margin to list links.
- Fix multiple tag selection wizard step.
- Update tag document list and the document tag list
  views to require the view permissions for both objects.
- Install and server static content to and from the image.
  Remove installation of static content from the setup
  and upgrade stages.
- Add support for editing document comments.
- Fix optional metadata remove when mixed with required
  metadata.
- Create intermediate file cache folder. Fixes preview errors
  when the first document uploaded is an office file.
- Move queue and task registration to the ``CeleryQueue`` class.
  The ``.queues.py`` module is now loaded automatically.
- Add task dotted path validation.
- Increase dropzone upload file size limit to 2GB
- Add cabinet created and edited events.
- Chart updates: Show last update date and time in list view and details view.
  Change color scheme to match rest of project. Increase size of data points.
  Improve responsive settings. Redirect to the current view after queueing.
- Split document type retention policies into it own view.
- Place deletion policies units before periods for clarity.


Removals
--------

- Django suit third party app.


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.2

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Make a backup of your supervisord file::

    sudo cp /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf.bck

Update the supervisord configuration file. Replace the environment
variables values show here with your respective settings. This step will refresh
the supervisord configuration file with the new queues and the latest
recommended layout::

    MAYAN_DATABASE_ENGINE=django.db.backends.postgresql MAYAN_DATABASE_NAME=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_PASSWORD=mayanuserpass MAYAN_DATABASE_USER=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_HOST=127.0.0.1 MAYAN_MEDIA_ROOT=/opt/mayan-edms/media \
    /opt/mayan-edms/bin/mayan-edms.py platformtemplate supervisord > /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf

Edit the supervisord configuration file and update any setting the template
generator missed::

    vi /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py collectstatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

- Due to the change of using the entire dotted path of apps, the backend
  of existing mailing profiles will be invalid and must be re-created.

- Paths to apps must be updated in existing ``config.yml`` files. Preprend
  ``mayan.apps.`` to any app reference. Some instances:

  .. code-block::

    LOCK_MANAGER_BACKEND: lock_manager.backends.file_lock.FileLock

  to

  .. code-block::

    LOCK_MANAGER_BACKEND: mayan.apps.lock_manager.backends.file_lock.FileLock

  .. code-block::

    OCR_BACKEND: ocr.backends.pyocr.PyOCR

  to

  .. code-block::

    OCR_BACKEND: mayan.apps.ocr.backends.pyocr.PyOCR

  .. code-block::

    CONVERTER_GRAPHICS_BACKEND: converter.backends.python.Python

  to

  .. code-block::

    CONVERTER_GRAPHICS_BACKEND: mayan.apps.converter.backends.python.Python

  Check the supervisord logs at ``/var/log/supervisor`` for additional errors
  in the form::

    ImportError: No module named ocr.backends.pyocr

- To collect and compress the static media files, use the new ``preparestatic``
  command instead of the traditional ``collectstatic``. Both work the same
  way, but ``preparestatic`` has a default backlist to avoid collecting
  test files.

Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

- :gitlab-issue:`475` Finish converting all views to class based views.
- :gitlab-issue:`498` Can't scan sub directories
- :gitlab-issue:`522` Office 365 SMTP
- :gitlab-issue:`539` Setting for default email sender is missing
- :gitlab-issue:`543` Docker: Support PGID/PUID Usage
- :gitlab-issue:`549` Clean docker installation does not create documents_cache folder
- :gitlab-issue:`550` Document content does not appear for non-PDF files
- :gitlab-issue:`553` Python 3
- :gitlab-issue:`563` Recursive Watch Folder
- :gitlab-issue:`579` Untranslated items
- :gitlab-issue:`589` Document {{ link }} send via Email contains example.com as domain

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
