Version 3.2.4
=============

Released: June 29, 2019


Changes
-------

- Support configurable GUnicorn timeouts. Defaults to
  current value of 120 seconds.
- Fix help text of the platformtemplate command.
- Fix IMAP4 mailbox.store flags argument. Python's documentation
  incorrectly state it is named flag_list. Closes GitLab issue
  #606. Thanks to Samuel Aebi (@samuelaebi) for the report and
  debug information.
- Support configurable GUnicorn timeouts. Defaults to
  current value of 120 seconds.
- Fix help text of the platformtemplate command.
- Fix IMAP4 mailbox.store flags argument. Python's documentation
  incorrectly state it is named flag_list. Closes GitLab issue
  #606.
- Improve the workflow preview generation. Use polylines
  instead of splines. Add state actions to the preview.
  Highlight the initial state.
- Add help text to the workflow transition form comment field.
- Fix direct deployment instructions.
- Add user, group, and role dashboard widgets.
- Add test mixin detect database connection leaks.
- Remove tag create event registration from the tag
  instances. The tag create event is not applicable to
  existing tags.
- Add proper redirection after moving a document to the
  trash.
- Remove the INSTALLED_APPS setting. Replace it with
  the new COMMON_EXTRA_APPS and COMMON_DISABLED_APPS.
- Improve email metadata support. Can now work on
  email with nested parts. Also the metadata.yaml
  attachment no longer needs to be the first attachment.

Removals
--------

- None


Upgrading from a previous version
---------------------------------

If installed via Python's PIP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ curl https://gitlab.com/mayan-edms/mayan-edms/raw/master/removals.txt | pip uninstall -r /dev/stdin

Type in the console::

    $ pip install mayan-edms==3.2.4

the requirements will also be updated automatically.


Using Git
^^^^^^^^^

If you installed Mayan EDMS by cloning the Git repository issue the commands::

    $ git reset --hard HEAD
    $ git pull

otherwise download the compressed archived and uncompress it overriding the
existing installation.

Remove deprecated requirements::

    $ pip uninstall -y -r removals.txt

Next upgrade/add the new requirements::

    $ pip install --upgrade -r requirements.txt


Common steps
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Perform these steps after updating the code from either step above.

Make a backup of your supervisord file::

    sudo cp /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf.bck

Update the supervisord configuration file. Replace the environment
variables values show here with your respective settings. This step will refresh
the supervisord configuration file with the new queues and the latest
recommended layout::

    sudo sh -c "MAYAN_DATABASE_ENGINE=django.db.backends.postgresql MAYAN_DATABASE_NAME=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_PASSWORD=mayanuserpass MAYAN_DATABASE_USER=mayan \
    MAYAN_DATABASE_HOST=127.0.0.1 MAYAN_MEDIA_ROOT=/opt/mayan-edms/media \
    /opt/mayan-edms/bin/mayan-edms.py platformtemplate supervisord > /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf"

Edit the supervisord configuration file and update any setting the template
generator missed::

    sudo vi /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mayan.conf

Migrate existing database schema with::

    $ mayan-edms.py performupgrade

Add new static media::

    $ mayan-edms.py preparestatic --noinput

The upgrade procedure is now complete.


Backward incompatible changes
-----------------------------

- None


Bugs fixed or issues closed
---------------------------

- :gitlab-issue:`606` Delete after IMAP Processing
- :gitlab-issue:`628` mailbox.user in POP3Email gets passed keyword argument, but only accepts "user" or positional argument

.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mayan-edms/
